Lost Votes and Posterior Multimodality in the eforensics
                                          Model∗


                                 Walter R. Mebane, Jr.†


Original version: June 29, 2023                                This version: July 2, 2023




   ∗ Prepared for presentation at PolMeth 2023, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, July 9-11,

2023. For assistance I thank Arya Abkenar, Kirill Kalinin and Joe Klaver. For suggestions I thank
Joe Klaver. For data I thank Bill Gallery, Kirill Kalinin and Owen Lippert.
   † Professor, Department of Political Science and Department of Statistics, University of

Michigan, Haven Hall, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1045 (E-mail: wmebane@umich.edu).
                                         Abstract


eforensics produces valid estimates of the number of fraudulent votes at each observed
aggregation unit (e.g., precinct): while valid for measuring malevolent distortions of
electors’ intentions, eforensics estimates are not perfect. The model can produce false
positive estimates (or false negative estimates) for eforensics-frauds in two circumstances
that often occur: both strategic behavior and lost votes can cause the eforensics model
to misestimate malevolent distortions of elector’s intentions. Lost votes can occur due to
malevolent actions such as voter intimidation but also as a kind of strategic behavior. The
eforensics model specification cannot validly accommodate lost votes, so the occurrence
of lost votes implies that the model is misspecified. Such misspecification can produce
erroneous eforensics-frauds estimates. I present evidence that lost votes can sometimes
be detected by assessing multimodality in the posterior distribution of the eforensics
model’s mixture probability parameters. I present evidence that lost votes can be detected
when votes are lost asymmetrically between the leader (the alternative the eforensics
model specifies benefits from frauds) and opposition (all other alternatives). I offer two
tests that can be routinely used with eforensics when the model parameters are
estimated using multiple MCMC chains. Surprisingly small amounts of multimodality can
mean that eforensics estimates are being affected by misspecification due to lost votes.
1         Introduction

It is difficult to measure election frauds, even more so when all one has to work with are
basic summaries of the election such as the number of eligible voters and the number of
votes received by ballot alternatives (say candidates) at each aggregation unit. Such
measurement is the core mission for election forensics—the field devoted to using statistical
methods to determine whether the results of an election accurately reflect the intentions of
the electors (cf. Mebane 2008).1 By referring to measurement I go beyond trying merely to
detect election anomalies (e.g. Myagkov, Ordeshook and Shaikin 2009; Mebane 2014;
Montgomery, Olivella, Potter and Crisp 2015; Rozenas 2017; Cantú 2019). Recently
methods attempting frauds measurement have been proposed (Klimek, Yegorov, Hanel and
Thurner 2012; Klimek, Jiménez, Hidalgo, Hinteregger and Thurner 2018; Zhang, Alvarez
and Levin 2019). I use the new statistical model eforensics (Ferrari, Mebane, McAlister
and Wu 2019) to argue that the key challenges to frauds measurement are unobservable
information and ambiguity—and eforensics goes a long way towards overcoming these.
In particular in this paper I examine consequences lost votes have for eforensics
estimation, with sidelong attention to contributions made by strategic elector behavior.
        What are election frauds? Mindful of both polyarchy (Dahl 1956) and social choice
theory (Riker 1982), election forensics refers to election results accurately reflecting the
intentions of the electors. Frauds thwart such accurate reflection. I define election frauds as
malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions that change or potentially can change election
outcomes. To distinguish frauds from mere failures of election administration or other
accidents, we might require such thwarting to result from undemocratic actions such as are
undertaken by authoritarians (e.g. Lehoucq 2003; Schedler 2006; Svolik 2012; Simpser 2013;
Norris 2014). Procedural failures might distort intentions, and procedural failures might be
planned to distort. But I say the distortions are the frauds, not the procedural failures per
se. Many other approaches try to detect and assess what I call “procedural frauds,” but
    1
        “Elector” refers to a registered or otherwise eligible voter.


                                                           1
my aim with eforensics is to measure “realized frauds.” How many votes are misdirected
or misallocated due to malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions? In section 2.2 I will
compare eforensics estimates to an example of a consequential process that was based on
detecting procedural frauds to support my claim that eforensics estimates are valid
(although not perfect).
   Reference to electors’ intentions points to a key unobservable: we can’t observe electors’
intentions. In politics people act not merely based on what they prefer but also based on
what they expect other people to do: by acting in part based on their expectations
regarding others, electors act strategically (e.g. Stephenson, Aldrich and Blais 2018).
Strategic behavior must be admitted in any election system that satisfies criteria for
democracy such as the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem expresses (Riker 1982). Acting
strategically does not necessarily mean that electors’ actions differ from what their sincere
actions would be (Kawai and Watanabe 2013), but they might.
   Unobservable intentions imply that frauds measurement faces a fundamental ambiguity.
Any measurement effort focuses on empirical patterns. Malevolent distortions of
intentions—frauds—produce patterns via a mechanism similar to what happens when there
is strategic behavior, that is when there is normal politics (see section 2.3). I show that
eforensics provides valid but imperfect measures of frauds, the imperfection largely
stemming from such ambiguities. Features of eforensics may support discriminating the
frauds.
   Manifestations of election frauds are many and varied: beyond tampering with vote
tallies there are deploying fake voters and votes, voter intimidation, election violence, voter
suppression, misinformation and more (e.g. Birch 2011; Wang 2012; Rundlett and Svolik
2016; Jamieson 2018). Audits can detect some kinds of tampering (e.g. Electoral
Complaints Commission 2010; Alvarez, Morrell, Rivest, Stark and Stewart 2019), but with
eforensics the aim is to measure distortions including those that might make even
procedurally accurate vote tallies not match electors’ intentions.


                                              2
    Strategic behavior is no less diverse. Strategies to consider that relate to cases discussed
in this paper include wasted-vote strategies (Cox 1994), threshold insurance and two-vote
strategies (Shikano, Herrmann and Thurner 2009; Harfst, Blais and Bol 2018), bandwagons
(Berch 1989), coordinating split-ticket voting (Alesina and Rosenthal 1995; Mebane 2000),
majority-or-runoff strategies (Bouton and Gratton 2015) and strategic abstention (Cox and
Munger 1989; Feddersen and Pesendorfer 1999). For the most part in this paper, because
the focus is on lost votes, I do not elaborate details describing how the various strategies
bear on each election I mention.
    If not because of strategic considerations, the most common reasons for lost votes are
failures in election administration. Administrative weaknesses include bad ballots and
voter identification requirements that produce lost votes. I show that the imperfections
eforensics exhibits as a model for measuring frauds need not prevent its being used if it
is used with appropriate attention to nuances linked to estimated parameter values.
    After motivating and describing the Bayesian formulation of eforensics and its
Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) estimation approach, I present one case that
supports believing that eforensics supplies valid measures of malevolent distortions of
electors’ intentions. Then I use a notional individual-level formulation to discuss
ambiguities relating to the eforensics model. Then the discussion turns to several cases
chosen to bring out aspects of what eforensics does in the presence of lost votes.
Considerations about strategic elector behavior also inform the discussion.



2     eforensics Model Motivation

Statistical approaches based only on counts of electors and votes are challenged because
neither electors’ preferences, strategies nor information are observed—nor is whether
anyone’s actions are malevolent—yet the election forensics task is to assess whether
electors’ intentions are accurately reflected in the election outcome. eforensics is based



                                               3
on an explict model: functional form commitments stand in place of features it is
impossible to observe. What’s the problem?
      The eforensics model assumes that if there are no frauds then each elector decides
whether to vote and, if so, for whom in a way that can be represented by two binary
choices governed by Bernoulli probabilities. The turnout choice is between “vote” and
“abstain,” and the vote choice decision is between “leader” and “opposition.” Conditioning
on the number of electors (Ni ) at aggregation unit i, the number of votes cast is then an
overdispersed binomial random variable: the turnout probability averages the electors’
probabilities at i with extra variation due to variation across individuals. Conditioning on
Ni , the number of people voting for the leader is an overdispersed binomial with
probability being the product of turnout and vote choice probabilities, with extra variation
due to variation across individuals.
      A key aspect of the mechanism by which frauds distort intentions is that they induce
dependencies among individuals’ observed votes (see section 2.3 for further discussion).
Imagine, for example, that fake votes are added all for the vote leader. The fake votes are
dependent. Notionally similar dependence arises if many are coerced to vote for the leader,
etc. The eforensics model measures the dependencies using a finite mixture model. One
component corresponds to no fraud, one to “incremental fraud” and one to “extreme
fraud.” The idea for such a mixture structure comes from Klimek et al. (2012), who
emphasize how frauds induce multimodal data distibutions,2 which in their view is the
manifestation of the dependencies we can observe given aggregate count data.
      The problem is that other factors in politics induce dependence, and discriminating
dependence that traces to frauds from dependence that originates elsewhere is challenging.
Strategic behavior generically presents the most difficult problem because both strategic
behavior and frauds induce dependence. For instance, in a Nash equilibrium each elector
considers and responds to all others’ expected votes. Generally strategic behavior implies
  2
   Klimek et al. (2012) rely on Borghesi and Bouchaud (2010), whose diffusion model represents local
dependencies but not the kinds of global dependencies frauds induce.


                                                 4
there are dependencies among all strategic electors’ behavior, with some electors acting
systematically similarly and others acting systematically in opposition. Both frauds and
strategic behavior can involve votes being changed—with frauds it’s some malefactor that
changes votes while with strategic behavior individual electors may change their own votes
from what each would do if acting sincerely. How to discriminate effects of strategic
behavior from effects of frauds is a question.
   Features of election administration can also induce dependence among votes but not
originate with malevolent actions. E.g., variation in ballot quality or voting equipment
provision can induce widespread confusion or delays that lead to voting errors or decreased
turnout (e.g. Mebane 2004; Pettigrew 2017). Multiple sources of dependence mean
eforensics estimates may be ambiguous as far as interpretations in terms of
frauds—malevolent distortions—are concerned.


2.1     Model Specification

In eforensics electors either vote or abstain, and vote choices are reduced to two options:
one candidate or other ballot alternative is the “leader”; the remaining alternatives are
grouped as “opposition.” Frauds benefit the leader. Some votes are transferred to the
leader from opposition (“stolen”), and some are taken from nonvoters (“manufactured”).


eforensics model observed variables Observed data for n aggregation unit
observations indexed by i = 1, . . . , n include the total number of vote-eligible persons (Ni ),
the number of votes for the leader (Wi ) and the number of votes cast (Vi ). The model
conditions on Ni . The number of abstentions is Ai = Ni − Vi . The number of votes for
opposition plays no direct role in the model but to clarify definitions I specify that as
Oi = Vi − Wi . Covariates {xνi , xτi , xιi , xυi }ni=1 , described below, are also observed.


eforensics model The incidence of eforensics-frauds is indicated by unobserved
variables Zi ∈ {1, 2, 3}, where Prob(Zi = k) = πk , k ∈ {1, 2, 3}: Zi = 1 means “no fraud”,

                                                    5
Zi = 2 means “incremental fraud,” and Zi = 3 means “extreme fraud.” The prior for πk
ensures that π1 is weakly largest:


      π̃1 ∼ U (0, 1);      π̃2 ∼ U (0, π̃1 );   π̃3 ∼ U (0, π̃1 )                                   (1a)
                     π̃j
      πj =                     ,   j ∈ {1, 2, 3}                                                    (1b)
               π̃1 + π̃2 + π̃3

I use this prior to deter label switching (Grün and Leisch 2009).
   With τi being the unobserved true proportion of electors who vote and νi being the
unobserved true proportion of votes cast that are for the leader, the magnitudes of
eforensics-frauds are determined using proportions
               
               
               
               
               
                0,                if Zi = 1
               
               
       pti =
                ιM
                  i (1 − τi ),     if Zi = 2 ,                                                      (2a)
               
               
               
               υiM (1 − τi ),
               
                                  if Zi = 3
               
               
               
               
               
                0,                                   if Zi = 1
               
               
      pwi =      ιM              S
                  i (1 − τi ) + ιi τi (1 − νi ),      if Zi = 2                                     (2b)
               
               
               
               
               υiM (1 − τi ) + υiS τi (1 − νi ),
               
                                                     if Zi = 3 ,

                                                                           M
where pti is fraudulent turnout, and pwi is fraudulent vote choice. ιM
                                                                     i or υi are the

proportions of true abstentions that are instead counted as votes cast (manufactured
votes), and ιSi or υiS are the proportions of true votes for opposition that are instead
counted as votes for the leader (stolen votes). So the proportion of electors observed
abstaining expressed in terms of eforensics-frauds is a∗i = 1 − τi − pti , and the proportion
voting for the leader is wi∗ = νi τi + pwi . The likelihood for observations {Ai , Wi }ni=1 , which
conditions on {Ni , xνi , xτi , xιi , xυi }ni=1 , is a product of binomial distributions each having Ni




                                                         6
trials and binomial probability respectively a∗i and wi∗ :

             n                           
                Ni                ∗ Ni −Ai Ni
            Y
         L=             ∗ Ai
                      (ai ) (1 − ai )         (wi∗ )Wi (1 − wi∗ )Ni −Wi .                            (3)
            i=1
                 A i                       Wi



       The unobserved proportions τi , νi , ιM    S    M      S
                                             i , ιi , υi and υi are defined using observed

covariate vectors xτi , xνi , xιi , xυi , coefficient vectors γ, β, ρM , ρS , δM , δS and random effects
                  ιS   υM   υS
κνi , κτi , κιM
             i , κi , κi , κi :



                         1
         τi =                                                                                       (4a)
               1 + exp[−(γ > xτi + κτi )]
                         1
         νi =                                                                                       (4b)
               1 + exp[−(β > xνi + κνi )]
                         k
         ιli =                            , l ∈ {M, S}                                              (4c)
               1 + exp[−(ρ>   ι     ιl
                           l xi + κi )]
                         1−k
         υil = +                              , l ∈ {M, S} ,                                        (4d)
                 1 + exp[−(δl> xυi + κυli )]



where k = .7. Each coefficient in γ, β, ρM , ρS , δM , δS has an independent Normal prior
(N (0, 1/10000)). Each κξi , ξ ∈ {ν, τ }, is an unobserved variable that for unknown mean µκξ
and standard deviation σ κξ is assumed to have as prior the Normal distribution
κξi ∼ N (µκξ , σ κξ ) with µκξ ∼ N (0, 1), σ κξ ∼ Exp(5),3 and likewise for κιM   ιS   υM
                                                                             i , κi , κi  and
κυS                               τ      ν                                 M    S    M      S
 i . In τi and νi random effects κi and κi capture overdispersion, and in ιi , ιi , υi and υi

random effects κιM   ιS   υM
                i , κi , κi  and κυS
                                  i  capture extra variation in observation-level frauds.


estimation eforensics implements MCMC using Metropolis-Hastings (Plummer,
Stukalov and Denwood 2016) with four chains (Denwood 2016), using Markov Chain Monte
Carlo Standard Error (MCMCSE) (Flegal, Haran and Jones 2008; Flegal and Hughes 2012;
Gong and Flegal 2016) for a stopping rule. Chains run until σθj < .05 where σθ2j is the
estimated asymptotic variance of the j th component of parameter vector θ, computing σθ2j
using consistent nonoverlapping batch means (Jones, Haran, Caffo and Neath 2006).
   3
       The exponential hyperprior for σ κξ imposes some regularization.



                                                       7
      Observation i is classified as type Z̃i ∈ {1, 2, 3} if a plurality of MCMC iterations have
Zi = Z̃i . Using indicator function I(·) the number of eforensics-fraudulent observations
is H = ni=1 I(Zi ∈ {2, 3}), and the proportion is ϕ = H/n. Numbers of
        P

eforensics-fraudulent voters and votes for the leader at i are Fti = pti Ni and Fwi = pwi Ni ,
with totals Ft = ni=1 Fti and Fw = ni=1 Fwi .
                P                 P



2.2       Illustration of eforensics Validity

We present one example that illustrates that eforensics estimates are valid measures of
malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions. Starting in the next section I’ll emphasize
imperfections, including especially imperfections that relate to lost votes.
      The example is the 2017 National Assembly election in France (Kuhn 2018). The
Conseil Constitutionnel issued 505 decisions concerning 307 districts, including eight
decisions to annul a district’s election. Seven of those decisions addressed elections that
were decided by second-round elections, while one addressed a first-round decision. We
show the second-round decisions relate positively to eforensics-fraudulent votes: having
more eforensics-fraudulent votes in a legislative district, relative to the margin of victory
in the district, is associated with a higher probability of the district’s election being
annulled. eforensics estimation for second-round votes uses bureaux de vote aggregation
units,4 and Wi contains district winner votes. The eforensics specification pools all
districts: the model includes all bureaux with district fixed effects specified for turnout and
vote choice (in xτ and xν of (4)(a) and 4)(b)).
      Figure 1 shows a scatterplot of the round 2 election results in the form of turnout and
leader proportions (ti and wi ), with histograms along the margins and a two-dimensional
empirical density shown behind the scatterplot’s points. The plot of the original data in
Figure 1(a) has the striking feature that most of the bureaux have more than half the votes
counted for the leader. This pattern is partly explained because in the second round most
  4
      At least one bureaux is created for every 300 electors (Ministère de l’Intérieur 2021).



                                                         8
districts have only two candidates. Figure 1(b) shows the data after each bureau has its
district’s mean removed—i.e., district fixed effects are removed. These residualized
observations are extremely skewed but less so than are the original proportions.
       According to the eforensics model mixture probabilities, eforensics-frauds are rare
(estimates in Table 1): π1 has posterior mean .990 with HPD 95% interval [.987, .992];
π2 = .0102 [.00765, .0134]; π3 = .000106 [.0000301, .000191]. Among frauds magnitude
parameters ρM 0 < 0 and ρS0 < 0 while δM 0 and δS0 do not differ from the prior means of
zero. In line with the mixture probabilities, ϕ = 484/68760 = .00704 is small. Summed
over all districts’ posterior means Ft = 22471.8 and Fw = 28719.6 are small as a proportion
of leaders’ votes ni=1 Wi = 10970881: 28719.6/10970881 = .00262.
                   P

       We use Poisson and binomial logistic regressions to assess eforensics-frauds estimates’
relation to Conseil actions (Table 2). One model’s outcome is the number of cases in each
district (Table 2(A)). The other’s is whether annulment occurs given that there is a case
(Table 2(B)).5 Regressors are district sums of manufactured (Ft ), stolen (Fw − Ft ) or total
eforensics-fraudulent votes in each district, each divided by the margin M between votes
for the first- and second-place candidates in each district. Language in the annulment
decisions guides how we use M to normalize eforensics-fraudulent votes. Frequently
decisions say, “in view of the small difference in votes between the two candidates present
in the second ballot, it is necessary, without there being any need to examine the other
complaints, to annul the contested electoral operations.”6 M being interesting to the court
(Klaver and Mebane 2022), we use regressors Ft /(M + 1), (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) and
Fw /(M + 1).
       As the note at the end of Table 2 reports, Ft /(M + 1) and (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) are
strongly correlated, so in each regression specification we include only one regressor at a
time.7 While Ft /(M + 1) and (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) are each strongly positively associated
   5
     Annulments models use a cases model with regressor M to adjust for censoring (Maddala 1983, 277–278).
   6
     Translation of paragraph 9 in Conseil Constitutionnel (2017).
   7
     Column (d) in Table 2(A) illustrates the kind of multicollinearity that otherwise occurs, with coefficients
having opposite signs.


                                                       9
with the number of cases pertaining to each district, AIC suggests it is sufficient and best
to represent case occurrence as depending solely on M : an increasing district margin
decreases the probability that there is a case.8
      Coefficient estimates in Table 2(B) show that the probability of annulments increases
with each of the aspects of eforensics-frauds used as regressor. If the estimated
coefficients are multiplied by the respective upper bounds of the ranges for Ft /(M + 1),
(Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) and Fw /(M + 1) shown in Table 2’s note, then the posterior means
.795(6.12) = 4.9, 3.73(1.30) = 4.9 and 3.73(7.775) = 29.0 reveal hefty spans for the implied
probabilities. AIC evaluated at the posterior mean is smallest for (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) in
Table 2(B)(f), but the differences from the specifications that include instead Ft /(M + 1)
or Fw /(M + 1) are too small to emphasize all that much. A detail not shown in Table 2 is
that of the ten largest normalized eforensics-fraudulent vote totals six occur for districts
that had elections annulled.
      Estimated eforensics frauds closely and strongly correspond to National Assembly
annulment decisions by the Conseil Constitutionnel in 2017. As Klaver and Mebane (2022)
reports similar findings occur for 2012 National Assembly elections.


2.3      eforensics Model Motivation and Core Ambiguity

We use notional individual-level functional forms to illuminate how the eforensics model
works to estimate malevolent distortions of elector intentions and to describe how and why
the model specification is subject to several kinds of ambiguities and misestimates.
Strategic elector behavior and lost votes are the main challenges discussed.
      Write the individual-level vote choice (or turnout) probability for elector j in
  8
   To account for variation across MCMC draws, in Table 2(b–g) we use Normal approximation coefficient
means and confidence intervals (Tanner 1986). For each MCMC draw the algorithm uses a robust covariance
matrix, which among other things adjusts for overdisperion in the binomial regression models.




                                                  10
aggregation unit (say precinct) i in general form as

                        1
       ζij =                                                                                             (5)
                1 + exp[−(b>
                           ij xij )]



for ideally observed covariate vector xij and coefficient vector bij . Imagine that the
specification of xij is such that the probabilities ζij are independent across electors. This
might be thought of as the simplest kind of individual-level reality if there are not
malevolent distortions of elector intentions. Contrast this with an alternative general
individual-level specification with malevolent distortion components Di :

                          1
       ζij∗ =                             .                                                              (6)
                1 + exp[−(b>
                           ij xij + Di )]



If the vote probabilities under consideration are probabilities of voting for the leader, then
precincts that have adding frauds (as in (2a) and (2b) given the definitions of a∗i and wi∗ )
will have Di > 0. This means that for pairs of precincts i and i0 that have frauds, with
i 6= i0 , cov(Di , Di0 ) 6= 0. Not only are the terms Di correlated across precincts that have
malevolent distortions, but all electors in each such precinct i are perturbed by the same
impulse Di .9 Hence for precincts i and i0 that have malevolent distortions, for distinct
electors j 6= j 0 , cov(ζij∗ , ζi∗0 j 0 ) 6= 0. This specification represents the way a simple kind of
frauds induces dependence among the notionally observed behavior of individual electors.
    In the eforensics model specification, the idea is that νi (or τi ) is approximately
Ni−1 j∈i ζij , while the additions in (2a), (2b), a∗i and wi∗ for cases Zi = 2 and Zi = 3 via
      P

                                               −1          ∗
ιM    S    M      S
                                                  P
 i , ιi , υi and υi give approximations to Ni         j∈i ζij . This conveys the sense in which

the dependencies among individual electors induced by malevolent distortions—by
frauds—identify the mixture probabilities and frauds magnitudes parameters of the
   9
    Implications are similar if instead of Di (6) includes Dij with precinct mean Di . In the spirit of the
Borghesi and Bouchaud (2010) diffusion model for local associations, correlations among terms Dij that
occur only for individuals within each aggregation unit have essentially no implications for eforensics
estimates given only aggregated (e.g. precinct-level) data.




                                                    11
eforensics model.
       Ambiguities arise because other things besides malevolent distortions induce
dependence among electors. Three important not necessarily (or necessarily not)
fraudulent factors that can induce dependencies are omitted variables, strategic elector
behavior and election administration failures.


Omitted Variables Omitted variables generally are less of a problem than one might
initially suspect because of the random effects in (4a) and (4b). If the observed covariates
xτi or xνi fail adequately to approximate the ideal covariates xij as those are aggregated in
Ni−1 j∈i ζij —e.g., if xτi and xνi consist only of the intercept term—then the random effects
      P

κνi and κτi can improve the approximation of Ni−1 j∈i ζij by (4a) or (4b). With
                                                      P

Metropolis-Hastings algorithm MCMC updates, the random effects’ Normal priors produce
very flexible even if not perfectly flexible posterior distributions.10


Strategic Elector Behavior Strategic behavior is not any kind of malevolent distortion
of elector intentions; indeed strategic considerations in general are essential parts of
electors’ intentions (e.g. Riker 1982). But strategic behavior has a feature that makes it
potentially a greater challenge for eforensics than are omitted variables. With strategic
behavior but no malevolent distortions we might imagine we have idealized individual-level
specifications like

                            1
         ζij+ =                              ,                                                                 (7)
                  1 + exp[−(b>
                             ij xij + Sij )]



where Sij represents a strategic contribution based on the expectations elector j has about
other electors. In the case of something like Nash equilibrium, Sij will draw on
expectations about all other electors. If expectations are at least approximately rational
and have such an extensive span, then they induce correlations among electors both within
  10
       In practice it is often advantageous to include geographically defined fixed effects in xνi and xτi .



                                                          12
and, more directly important for eforensics, between precincts.
   These correlations might differ from the correlations that are induced by malevolent
distortions. First, for the simplest kinds of strategic behavior like wasted-vote strategies
typically all precincts will be involved, not merely some precincts as occurs for the
malevolent distortions in scope for eforensics. Second, not all precinct aggregations of
the strategic contributions Sij will be positive: if some precincts have most electors who
support the leader while other precincts have most electors who support another candidate,
they may feature mean values Si that have opposite signs. Nonetheless aggregation of
strategic contributions may trigger false positive eforensics estimates. The random
effects κνi and κτi may help filter out the strategic contributions, particularly if the
contributions have impacts on almost all precincts. But the independence of the priors
used for those random effects may limit the extent to which the random effects can capture
the associations across precincts that the aggregated strategic contributions induce.
   If several of the averages Si of strategic contributions Sij are negative, then—more than
false positives—eforensics estimates may be aliased and exhibit posterior multimodality
in ways similar to what can occur with lost votes (as is discussed next), because the
eforensics model specification cannot faithfully represent such negative impulses.


Lost Votes The concerning election administration failures are those official actions that
impede voting or induce errors in voting or vote tabulation. For example, consider resource
allocations that cause excessively long wait times, ballot designs that confuse voters or
machine defects that produce mistaken vote counts. We focus on the ways such problems
induce lost votes: votes that should have been counted but weren’t, perhaps because they
weren’t cast in the first place (e.g., by electors who can’t wait in a long line). With lost
votes but no malevolent distortions we might have idealized individual-level specifications




                                               13
like

                          1
       ζij# =                              ,                                                 (8)
                1 + exp[−(b>
                           ij xij + Lij )]



where Lij ≤ 0 is the lost votes component. If a vote is completely lost then Lij = −∞ (or
at least Lij  0), but if a vote is only likely to be lost—perhaps as with a confusing ballot
design—then −∞ < Lij < 0. Lost votes present two primary challenges for the
eforensics model. Because election administrative failures are often localized, Lij is likely
to be nonzero only for electors in some precincts: sometimes almost all voters in some
precincts have Lij < 0 while all or almost all voters elsewhere have Lij = 0. Using Li to
denote the precinct average of Lij , Li induces dependence patterns similar to those induced
by Di : for pairs of precincts i and i0 that have lost votes, cov(Li , Li0 ) 6= 0.
   Such association can induce false positive eforensics-frauds estimates. But because
the eforensics specification includes only eforensics-frauds where votes are added for
the leader—see (2a), (2b), a∗i and wi∗ —the specification cannot faithfully represent lost
votes that subtract voters or subtract votes. So false positive eforensics estimates will
alias the reductions due to lost votes in unknown ways through the parameters and
estimated eforensics-frauds.
   Of course votes might be lost due to malevolent actions, for example voter suppression
or spoiling the votes for a candidate. In such cases the appropriate idealized
individual-level specification for the malevolent distortions is (8) and not (6), but a
problem remains because the eforensics specification cannot faithfully represent lost
votes that subtract voters or votes. What parameter values will most closely approximate
the data in such situations is unclear.
   An important nuance is that if votes intended for a non-leading candidate are lost more
often than are votes intended for the leader, then it’s as if a positive Di term has been
included in (6) corresponding to the individual-level leader vote choice probability: if the



                                                 14
lost votes are lost due to malevolent actions then the resulting estimated
eforensics-frauds may reflect the malevolent actions but they do not literally represent
vote counts that were added to the leader; instead, votes the non-leading candidate lost
may appear as eforensics-fraudulent votes gained by the leader. In such cases we expect
eforensics estimates to feature aliased representations of the vote-losing malevolent
distortions.
       While it is unclear in general what patterns aliased eforensics estimates induced by
lost votes will have, by using multiple chains in the MCMC algorithm we may observe
symptoms that suggest that lost votes are present. If the functional form of the likelihood
used for a Bayesian estimation does not closely approximate the process that generated the
data, the result is often multimodality in the posterior distribution of the Markov chains
(cf. Grün and Leisch 2009): the algorithm tries various parameter estimates to coerce the
model to approximate as closely as it can the process the model does not really match;
usually there are several such rough approximations, each of which is associated with a
local mode of the posterior distribution. Because the eforensics specification includes
only eforensics-frauds where votes are added for the leader—again see (2a), (2b), a∗i and
wi∗ —the model specification cannot faithfully represent lost votes. If lost votes occur we
therefore expect to observe posterior multimodality. Conversely, if we observe posterior
multimodality that is evidence that there are lost votes, although of course there may other
sources of model misspecification. If we run the MCMC algorithm for a sufficient number
of iterations with a single chain for such a misspecified model the chain should eventually
exhibit posterior multimodality, but in practice it is more effective to use several chains.11
To be determined is how substantial the posterior multimodality needs to be to support an
inference that there are lost votes: we will draw on empirical evidence to understand how
posterior multimodality in the mixture probabilities relates to the occurrence of lost votes.
  11
   With eforensics we typically use four chains each of which draws on a distinct type of pseudorandom
number generator.




                                                 15
Multiple Ambiguities For some elections there will be precincts that combine variants
of all the additions Di , Sij and Lij in (6), (7) and (8), so the sources of ambiguity in
eforensics estimation may compound or interfere with one another. In general there is no
reason to expect the various sources of ambiguity will cancel one another. Estimates from
eforensics may therefore require nuance and care to interpret.



3     Lost Votes (and Some Strategic Behavior)

One implication of the notional individual-level constructions of section 2.3 is that
malevolent distortions of elector intentions, strategic elector behavior and lost votes can all
prompt dependencies among individual electors that aggregate into dependencies (or
associations or correlations) among aggregation units such as polling stations or precincts.
While the specific forms such associations may take is unclear, as a general matter we can
say that distributions of aggregation unit proportions will be clumpy. While illustrating
such clumpiness in data from several elections, I illustrate how in eforensics model
estimates dependencies that appear as clumpiness can produce measurable multimodality
in MCMC posterior distributions for mixture probabilities. Particularly I suggest that
posterior MCMC multimodality is an indication that there are lost votes, although lost
votes do not necesarily trigger such multimodality and other kinds of model
misspecification can also trigger such multimodality. For example posterior MCMC
multimodality can appear when the Normal priors used for the frauds magnitude
parameters are insufficient.


3.1    Clumps and Entropy

Associations among aggregation units will generally manifest as clumpiness. Plots such as
the eforensics-plots shown in Figure 2 depict such clumpiness in a scatterplot of turnout
proportions by the proportions of votes cast for the leader. The figure shows polling station


                                              16
results from the 2009 president election in Afghanistan, where Hamid Karzai received the
most votes (Democracy International 2009) and is treated as the eforensics leader. The
eforensics-plot shows a scatterplot with histograms along the margins and a
two-dimensional empirical density behind the scatterplot. The original data in Figure 2(a)
exhibit turnout proportions that range from extremely low to 1.0, and proportions of votes
for the leader that range from 0.0 to 1.0. Because tribal and other bases for candidates’
political support varies regionally in Afghanistan, Figure 2(b) displays the data after
province fixed effects are removed. Clumps of points are apparent in both plots.
       The eforensics-plots shown in Figure 3 show data from the Uganda 2011 president
election, where the leader is Yoweri Museveni. Figure 3(a) exhibits a feature that Klimek
et al. (2012) emphasized as a “fingerprint of fraud”: the original data feature a
concentration of points in the upper-right corner of Figure 3(a) that have very high turnout
and very high proportions of votes for the leader. But regional variations in the candidates’
support motivates removing province fixed effects, which produces Figure 3(b) in which
such “fingerprints” are not apparent. Nonetheless clumps of points are apparent in both
plots.
       To make some of the clumps in the Afghanistan 2009 and Uganda 2011 plots easier to
see, Figure 4 magnifies the top-right portions of Figure 2(b) and Figure 3(b).12 Clumps are
easy to see in Figure 4: perhaps the Afghanistan data appear to be clumpier than are the
Uganda data.
       Tables 3 and 4 display eforensics-model estimates for the Afghanistan 2009 and
Uganda 2011 president elections. For Afghanistan the high number of polling stations with
extreme frauds and the occurrence of a positive value for the incremental frauds magnitude
parameter ρM 0 are strong indications that malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions
  12
       Magnifying the images in a viewer can produce similar effects.




                                                      17
occur. Removing Ft and Fw would leave the leader with vote proportion

                                      3093256 − 647006.3
                                                         = .475 ,
                                      5662758 − 512311.2

less than the threshold of .5 needed to avoid a runoff election (Electoral Complaints
Commission 2010, 37). For Uganda extreme frauds are ample if not potentially decisive:
the estimated proportion of leader votes that are eforensics-fraudulent is
312556.3/5436639 = .0575; the number of eforensics-fraudulent votes is not greater than
the margin of 5436639 − 2071397 = 3365242 between first and second. Note that the
Uganda eforensics model specification includes province fixed effects for turnout, vote
choice and eforensics-frauds magnitudes parameters that are not shown.
       Most relevant for a focus on posterior MCMC multimodality and lost votes are two
diagnostics for posterior multimodality. Both Tables 3 and 4 report for the mixture
probability parameters dip tests of unimodality (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) (denoted
D(πj ), j = 1, 2, 3) and computations of the differences among the posterior means across
the four MCMC chains (denoted M (πj ), j = 1, 2, 3). For D(πj ) a unimodality null
hypothesis is tested for the combination of all chains for each πj . M (πj ) reports the largest
absolute difference between pairs of chain-specific posterior means. In Table 3 D(π1 ) and
D(π2 ) are significant (the p-values are effectively zero), and M (π1 ) and M (π2 ) have values
that we will see are too large to ignore. In Table 4 no dip test value is significant but again
M (π1 ) and M (π2 ) have values that we will see are large. Our interpretation is that
probably both elections feature lost votes, or perhaps other misspecifications, even though
the eforensics estimates also suggest both elections include ample manufactured votes. It
is remarkable that the model for Uganda features posterior multimodality even though the
model specification includes province fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes.13
  13
   Including such fixed effects in the specification for the Afghanistan 2009 election changes the results in
important ways not discussed here.



                                                     18
       “Looks clumpy” is not a precise criterion for assessing clumpiness hence underlying
dependence among individual electors, so to measure clumpy dependence among
aggregation units we compute the entropy of turnout and vote proportion scatterplots. We
base our entropy measure on the cell counts produced by fitting each scatterplot into a
1000 × 1000 grid, computing the proportion qjk of points in each cell. “Gridded” entropy is
then E = − qjk log(qjk ). The corresponding efficiency is E/ log(N + ) where N + is the
           P

number of nonempty cells. Tables 5 and 6 display such entropy calculations for the
Afghanistan 2009 and Uganda 2011 data along with data from several other elections.14 I
compute entropy values after any fixed effects are removed (“residualized” observed
entropy). The tables also report Normal simulated data entropy values produced by
computing gridded entropy for observations simulated to have the same mean and
covariance as the residualized data (observed minus fixed effects), using the same number
of observations as in the observed data.
       The most important result in Tables 5 and 6 is that for every election the residualized
observed entropy is less than is the Normal simulated entropy. All of malevolent distortions
of elector intentions, strategic elector behavior and lost votes—and other things—can
trigger clumpiness, as discussed in section 2.3. The entropies suggest that one or more of
these occur in all of the elections included in the tables. While entropies are not
comparable across elections, the efficiency values are. The efficiency for Afghanistan 2009
is smaller than the efficiency for Uganda 2011: .9611 versus .9947. Only one election in the
tables—Peru 2021 President Round 1—has lower efficiency than does Afghanistan 2009.
Several15 have efficiencies higher than that of Uganda 2011. In work reported here and
elsewhere, I find that the efficiency values are not correlated with the extent or magnitude
of eforensics-frauds. Clumpiness is pervasive but not necessarily eforensics-frauds, let
alone malevolent distortions of elector intentions. Only clumpiness that connects
  14
     Elections for which eforensics-plots are shown somewhere in this paper have nonmissing “Figure”
entries in the last column.
  15
     These include Florida 2000 President, Ohio 2004 President, Ohio 2006 U.S. Senate, South Africa 2014
National, Uganda 2006 President.


                                                  19
appropriately with the functional forms of the eforensics model specification and its
estimator leads to nonzero estimated eforensics-frauds.16 The question is whether and
when such eforensics-frauds are measuring malevolent distortions as opposed to the
several sources for ambiguities.
       Two elections illustrate a common pattern in which different kinds of polling stations
are associated with aggregate dependencies (or “clumps”). Figure 5 shows poll data
eforensics-plots for the Canada 2011 federal election. Data from all districts are pooled:
the leader in each district is the candidate with the most votes. In Figure 5(a) the original
data show that a notable proportion of polls have turnout at or near 1.0. These polls are
Mobile polls and Special Voting Rules (SVR) polls (Elections Canada 2022). This
turnout-extreme clump migrates to the middle of the scatterplot when the data are
adjusted for district and poll-type fixed effects. Figure 6 shows casilla (ballot box) data for
the Mexico 2006 president election. High turnout is apparent among what are mostly
casillas especiales.17 Figure 7 displays the tops of the two elections’ residualized data
scatterplots. Clumps are apparent in both, although more so for Canada 2011. In Table 5
notice that the efficiency for Canada 2011 is lower than that for Mexico 2006 President.
       Last in this set is the Russia 2011 Duma election (polling stations shown in Figure 8).18
The leader is the United Russia party. A feature that will receive more attention in section
3.3 is the clump at the bottom near the middle of the residualized-data plot in Figure 8(b).
We will see that many of those low-valued polling stations have an experimentally driven
reason for their common relatively low values.


3.2       Lost Votes and MCMC Multimodality

To help gauge how lost votes manifest in eforensics estimates I turn first to a collection
of elections that can reasonably be expected not to suffer from malevolent distortions of
  16
     For example, for the Ohio 2006 U.S. Senate election there are zero estimated eforensics-frauds.
  17
     “Son casillas para que las personas en tránsito puedan votar si están lejos de su sección electoral” (Central
Electoral 2019).
  18
     A polling station is a UIK, uchastkovaya izbiratelnaya komissiya.


                                                         20
electors’ intentions (perhaps other than misinformation efforts) and that are likely
minimally affected by strategic elector behavior (perhaps other than strategic abstention).
I examine how the posterior multimodality measures D(πj ) and M (πj ) values are related
to participation and imbalances in these elections, then how these features are associated
with eforensics-frauds. Then I expand the scope of the assessments to a collection of
legislative elections. Next I exploit an example in which lost votes were induced by a field
experiment. The section concludes by considering several examples, one in which lost votes
can easily be seen in scatterplots and then several in which lost votes are notorious and
arguably decisive for the election outcomes.


Ballot Propositions The elections I study first are votes regarding U.S. state ballot
propositions, i.e., constitutional amendments, referenda and the like. An example of
propositions from California in 2008 is shown in Table 7. For the twelve propositions
apppearing on the ballot that year, the table reports for each proposition the total number
of votes cast on the proposition (summing all YES or NO votes), the proportion of all votes
cast for any office or item that were cast for the proposition, and the proportions of votes
cast for the proposition that are either YES or NO votes. The last two columns in Table 7
contain respectively minj∈{1,2,3} D(πj ) and maxj∈{1,2,3} M (πj ). Participation varies across
propositions, ranging from a low of .87 for proposition 11 to a high of .98 for proposition 8.
The asymmetry of support versus opposition for propositions varies: the most lopsided
vote is that for proposition 6 (.28 YES, .62 NO) while the closest vote is for proposition 11
(.44 YES, .43 NO).
   Tables 8 and 9 show that the diversity of posterior multimodality measures displayed in
Table 7 is matched by a diversity of eforensics-fraudulent votes estimates. The leader for
each of the eforensics models is the alternative that has the most votes. Both the
number of eforensics-fraudulent precincts and of eforensics-fraudulent votes varies
considerably across propositions. For example proposition 9 has no eforensics-fraudulent



                                               21
precincts while for proposition 7 10544 precincts are eforensics-fraudulent. Proposition 9
has no eforensics-fraudulent votes while proposition 7 has Fw = 681066.7. Continuing
the assumption that in these proposition votes there are no (or at least only scant)
malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions, what explains the great diversity of
eforensics-frauds estimates?
      To address that question I bring together the 75 propositions from elections in several
states summarized in Table 10. Figure 9 shows scatterplots of the state-level proportions
and M (π2 ) values for these propositions: the x-axis is either (a) the proportion of votes
cast that were either YES or NO or (b) the maximum of either the YES or NO proportions
divided by the proportion voting either YES or NO;19 the y-axis is M (π2 ). Overall
participation (Figure 9(a)) is not related to M (π2 ), but M (π2 ) tends to increase as the vote
becomes more lopsided (Figure 9(b)). Regression model parameter estimates in Table 11
further support the idea that lopsidedness is related to M (π2 ) but the mere proportion
participating per se is not. Using only the maximum proportion as regressor (Table 11(2))
is better than including the proportion voting. Such a result is not surprising: lower
participation that reduces both alternatives symmetrically should produce a more negative
estimate for β0 hence smaller τi but not otherwise much distort the eforensics model.
But nothing about the model specification allows it faithfully represent asymmetric
declines in participation. Recall the discussion of Lij and (8) in section 2.3: asymmetric
declines in participation in the ballot proposition elections are lost votes in the spirit of
that discussion.
      Posterior MCMC multimodalities also associate with the frequency and magnitude of
eforensics-frauds, although the relationships are not simple. We can show some of the
complexity of the relationships but by no means can we claim to have adequately described
                                                                                 P
them. Figure 10 presents the first part of that effort: for each proposition Fw / Vi is
plotted against M (π2 ). Clearly there is an increasing relationship, but as well it is clear
 19
      The rescaled YES and NO proportions sum to 1.0.



                                                  22
that the relationship is not well-described as linear. Figure 11 breaks Fw into its four
natural components ((a) incremental Ft , (b) incremental Fw − Ft , (c) extreme Ft and (d)
extreme Fw − Ft ). In most of the scatterplots there is an increasing relationship but again
such a relationship does not very well characterize how the multimodality measure relates
to the eforensics-frauds.
   The multinomial logit (MNL) model estimates in Table 12 explain part of the reason
                                                                            P
simple linear characterizations of the relationship between M (π2 ) and Fw / Vi or its
components fail. Beyond using a model that appropriately represents having count data,20
the results show that not only is D(π2 ) independently associated with the magnitude of
eforensics-frauds but the multiplicative interaction D(π2 ) × M (π2 ) has very strong
effects.


Legislative Elections I now apply a similar form of analysis to data from several
single-member district (SMD) legislative elections. The elections are from Bangladesh,
Canada, Germany and Mexico. To start I show eforensics-plots and eforensics model
estimates for at least one of the elections from each of the four countries.
       Data for Erststimmen from the 2021 Bundestag election are shown in Figure 12. The
leader in each Wahlkreis (district) is the party with the most votes there. The clump of
polling stations with extremely low turnout seen in Figure 12(a) are for Briefwahl : relative
to the often very large sets of electors who are eligible to vote in them, such polling
stations usually exhibit very low turnout. In Figure 12(b) where fixed effects both for
Wahlkreis and Wahlbezirk (polling station) type are removed the clump of Briefwahl
polling stations is shifted from the extreme to near the middle of the turnout distribution.
The eforensics specification used to produce the estimates reported in Table 13 includes
the same kinds of fixed effects for turnout and vote choice used for Figure 12(b). Even
though the number of eforensics-frauds is small, both the fact that incremental frauds
occur while ρM 0 and ρS0 have indeterminate signs and that posterior MCMC
  20
       Use of robust standard errors corrects for simple overdispersion.


                                                       23
multimodality occurs (D(π2 ) = 0) suggest there were problems in the election. One
possibility is irregularities that beset voting in Berlin (Wikipedia 2023).
    Earlier Bundestag elections exhibit more considerable measures of posterior MCMC
multimodality. For example for Erststimmen in 2005, shown in eforensics-plots in Figure
13, eforensics estimates (Table 14) have not only D(π2 ) = 0 but M (π2 ) = .0179.
Fw = 360137.2 is greater than in 2021. The incremental frauds for 2005 are arguably less
problematic than they are in 2021, even though they are more numerous (360069.4 versus
15031.5) because in 2005 ρM 0 and ρS0 are strictly negative while in 2021 they are not:
strictly negative incremental frauds magnitude parameters often occur when only strategic
elector behavior has occurred, without any malevolent distortion of electors’ intentions;
even if only due to wasted-vote considerations, strategic behavior occurs in Erststimmen
votes (e.g. Harfst, Blais and Bol 2018). In 2005 election administration problems caused
votes to be lost in Dortmund, with consequences that appear to be administratively less
adverse than what is occurring now in Berlin as a result of 2021 (Bundestag March 3, 2006;
Mebane and Klaver 2015).
    Table 15 reports eforensics estimates for the Canada 2011 data displayed in Figure 5.
The model specification includes the same fixed effects for turnout and vote choice that
were used to produce Figure 5(b), as well as a fixed effect for polls that needed to have
their counts of electors adjusted.21 . Even though Fw = 33238.6 is small in comparison to
Pn
  i=1 Wi = 7307339, worrisome in these results is ρm0 > 0 in addition to the occurrence of

polls that have extreme frauds. Also D(π2 ) = 0, even though M (π2 ) is too small to signal
concern about posterior MCMC multimodality.
    An optimistic view is that the concerns raised by the eforensics estimates for Canada
2011, which resemble similar problems estimated using data from the 2004, 2006, 2008 and
2015 Canada elections, are all due to lost votes. The 2011 election was marked by a
robocall scandal in Guelph (Devlin 2012) that may have contributed to lost votes there in
  21
     Some polls appear with zero electors but a positive number of votes cast. For these we assign Ni := Vi
and mark the poll for the referent fixed effect.


                                                    24
that election.22 But Table 16 suggest something more systematic is going on. The table
reports a breakdown by administrative type of the eforensics-fraud type of each poll,
pooling over the five federal elections during 2004–2015: what proportion are classified as
having no frauds, incremental frauds or extreme frauds. While regular residential polls
have very small frequencies of incremental or extreme frauds, the frequency of incremental
frauds for Mobile polls is seven times larger while the frequencies for SVR polls are more
than four times greater. Extreme frauds occur for Mobile and SVR polls with frequencies
that range from two to twelve times larger than are the frequencies for regular residential
polls. It is preferable for these discepancies to be due to differing occurrences of lost votes
rather than to some kind of malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions.
      For Mexico we have the Mayoria Relativa casilla votes in the 2006 Deputies election.
The leader in each district is the candidate with the most votes there. Figure 14 shows
eforensics-plots. These resemble the data shown for the 2006 president election (Figure
6) in several respects, and the 2006 Deputies and president elections have similar entropies
(Table 5). Table 17 reports eforensics estimates. The model specification includes
district fixed effects for turnout and vote choice. About 1.5 percent of leaders’ votes are
eforensics-fraudulent: Fw = 186060.1 out of ni=1 Wi = 11914080 votes. That both
                                                 P

ρM 0 < 0 and ρS0 < 0 suggests that many of the eforensics-fraudulent votes may be due
to strategic elector behavior: wasted-vote behavior should be expected given the presence
of, generally, three dominant parties or coalitions plus two smaller parties (Klesner 2007).
Neither D(π2 ) nor M (π2 ) have values that suggest there is posterior MCMC multimodality.
      For Bangladesh we have the 2001 election, which produced such controversy that a
losing party boycotted the subsequent legislature (European Union 2001; Centre for
Research and Information 2002). The leader in each district is the candidate with the most
votes there. Figure 15 shows eforensics-plots. Specifications for the eforensics
estimates reported in Table 18 include district fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
 22
      Estimates Fti and Fwi for the polls in Guelph find little that is particularly noteworthy.



                                                       25
eforensics-frauds magnitudes. With these fixed effects included, neither D(π2 ) nor M (π2 )
have values that suggest there is posterior MCMC multimodality, but if the frauds
magnitudes fixed effects are omitted then D(π2 ) = 0 and M (π2 ) = .0967: what might
appear to be evidence of lost votes instead appears to reflect that in this case to represent
the frauds magnitude parameters it is insufficient to rely on only intercepts in xιi and xυi
along with the Normal priors for κιM   ιS   υM
                                  i , κi , κi  and κυS
                                                    i  in (4)(c) and (4)(d). That both
ρM 0 < 0 and ρS0 < 0 suggests that many of the eforensics-fraudulent votes may be due
to strategic elector behavior: both wasted-vote and coalition behavior should be expected
given the large number of parties in the election (Bangladesh Election Commission 2002,
15, lists 54 parties), including an important four-party coalition. But extreme
eforensics-frauds are ample: 307 polling stations are classified as having extreme frauds,
and votes that have extreme frauds total Fw = 273598.0. Overall nearly five percent of
leader votes are eforensics-fraudulent: Fw = 1387497.6 out of ni=1 Wi = 28967523.
                                                              P

       Figure 16 displays the frauds magnitude fixed effects that are “active” in the sense that
they are associated with at least one polling station that is classified by the model of Table
18 as eforensics-fraudulent. Almost every district has an active fixed effect for
incremental frauds magnitudes, and most have active fixed effects for extreme frauds.
Taking into account the boundaries of the fixed effects’ credible intervals, several districts
are diverse in the sense that they have fixed effects that differ significantly in size from one
another.23
       The eforensics-frauds estimated using the estimates in Table 18 are big enough to
have changed election outcomes. As Table 19 shows, in nine districts Fw is bigger than M ,
the margin between the first-place and second-place candidates. Removing the
eforensics-frauds from the leader’s votes, with no other changes, would have put the
  23
     A caveat is that for all fixed effects except any displayed in position zero, which corresponds to the
intercept, I simply add the posterior mean of the intercept to the fixed effects’ coefficient and to the limits of
its 95% HPD interval, without adjusting for how these intervals should change to represent the full variation
of the combined fixed effects. So pending implementation of such corrected credible intervals, the displays
in Figure 16 should be viewed merely as informally illustrative.



                                                       26
second-place candidate into the lead.
   Having illustrated some of the main features of legislative elections from Bangladesh,
Canada, Germany and Mexico, I return to the task of evaluating how the two kinds of
measures of posterior MCMC multimodality associate with eforensics-frauds. Overall I
include data from 15 elections: Bangladesh 1991, 1996, 2001; Canada 2004, 2006, 2008,
2011, 2015; Germany 2002, 2005, 2009, 2021; Mexico 2006, 2009, 2012. For several of the
assessments I use D(π2 ) and M (π2 ) values taken from “nonpooled” eforensics estimates:
I estimate the model separately for each district. Estimates such as I displayed in Tables 1,
13, 14, 15, 17 and 18 are “pooled”: data from all districts are included in the same one
eforensics model with district fixed effects being used at least for turnout and vote
choice. As I discuss elsewhere, these approaches produce similar but not identical results.
   Figure 17 shows scatterplots of M (π2 ) and D(π2 ) for all districts in each country over
the included years. As should be expected, D(π2 ) is small—indeed D(π2 ) = 0—when
M (π2 ) is large, but a bit surprising is that D(π2 ) > 0 even when M (π2 ) is not small. For
instance, for Bangladesh (Figure 17(a)) D(π2 ) ≈ .8 while M (π2 ) ≈ .3. A range of D(π2 )
values occurs corresponding to quite small values of M (π2 ): e.g., D(π2 ) ≥ 0 for
M (π2 ) ≥ .0143 in Germany and for M (π2 ) ≥ .00919 in Mexico. Such small values of M (π2 )
that correspond to D(π2 ) = 0 are one reason I said in relation to Table 3 and subsequently
that even a value of M (π2 ) as small as .01 is too large to ignore as a signal for potential
posterior MCMC multimodality.
   The other reason not to ignore otherwise small M (π2 ) values is a set of binomial
regression models in which eforensics-fraudulent classifications or votes are the outcome
variables and M (π2 ) and D(π2 ) are regressors. Table 20 reports estimates for such
regression models that have as outcomes counts of polling stations in each district that are
classified as either having or lacking eforensics-frauds using nonpooled (district-specific)
eforensics estimates. In the models the reference category is “no frauds.” The regression
models include fixed effects for each election. As in the model for eforensics-frauds


                                              27
among ballot propositions (Table 12), a multiplicative interaction between M (π2 ) and
D(π2 ) substantially improves the model: excluding the interaction (Table 20(a)) is clearly
inferior to including it (Table 20(b)). Particularly if D(π2 ) > 0, a small value of
M (π2 )—versus M (π2 ) = 0—can be associated with an importantly large increase in the
proportion of polling stations that are classified as eforensics-fraudulent.
   Table 21 shows that a similar situation holds for the magnitude of eforensics-frauds,
hence for the number of eforensics-fraudulent votes, Fwi . Table 21(a,b) reports binomial
regression results for pooled estimates, and Table 21(c,d) reports results for nonpooled
estimates. The pooled and nonpooled estimates are qualitatively similar. While the
coefficients for the interaction are smaller than in the model for eforensics-frauds’
occurrences, the effects nonetheless imply that seemingly small values of M (π2 ) should not
be ignored, particularly when D(π2 ) > 0. A little posterior MCMC multimodality can go a
long way.
   Lost votes are a primary reason for eforensics estimates to exhibit posterior MCMC
multimodality, but as I’ve mentioned lost votes are not the only reason. Several other
elections resemble Bangladesh 2001 in that signs of posterior MCMC multimodality
disappear once geographically defined fixed effects are included for the eforensics-frauds
magnitude parameters. Other features of the eforensics model specification may also be
erroneous hence prompt signs of posterior MCMC multimodality.
   But the occurrence of posterior MCMC multimodality need not doom the model.
Recall that the eforensics model for the 2017 National Assembly election in France, for
which there is strong correspondence with district annulment decisions by the Conseil
Constitutionnel, has D(π2 ) = 0. In that case M (π2 ) is probably too small to matter. In
that case—if the decisions by the Conseil Constitutionnel can be trusted (as the French
public generally seems to do (Klaver 2023))—diagnosed posterior MCMC multimodality
does not prevent valid measurement of malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions.
   Moreover even if there are signs of posterior MCMC multimodality more substantial


                                              28
than occur in the 2017 election in France, eforensics estimates can provide important
insights. I’ll consider examples of this in sections 3.4 and 3.5 below.


3.3       Lost Votes and an Experiment

An election observation field experiment in Moscow during the 2011 Russia Duma election
provides data that can help confirm aspects of the lost votes mechanism. Enikolopov,
Korovkin, Petrova, Sonin and Zakharov (2013) randomly assigned observers to polling
stations on election day in Moscow, finding that the presence of observers at a polling
station reduced both reported turnout and the reported vote for the United Russia party.
They estimated treatment effects in the same directions but a bit attenuated at
neighboring polling stations. I use these experimentally induced reductions in turnout and
United Russia vote choices as implementations of a kind of lost votes. These are lost votes
for which, due to the experimental design, the vote-losing mechanisms are transparent.
       Table 22 reports eforensics estimates for 2011 Duma election including data only
from Moscow.24 The leader is United Russia. When the model is estimated for all of
Russia with region fixed effects included for turnout and vote choice, no eforensics-frauds
occur in Moscow. Elsewhere I discuss this pattern in which eforensics typically
underestimates malevolent distortions of elector intentions in Russia (there are “too many
frauds”). But Table 22 shows that when Moscow votes are treated separately eforensics
estimates are notable: Fw = 51643.9 out of ni=1 Wi = 2052751, which is 2.5% of leader
                                          P

votes. To many that number seems low, and it is smaller than the number estimated by
Enikolopov et al. (2013). ρM 0 > 0 and there are many extreme frauds with δM 0 > 0: it is
not surprising to find evidence of manufactured votes (Arbatskaya 2004). D(π2 ) = 0 and
M (π2 ) = .0495, so there are clear signs that posterior MCMC multimodality occurs.
       The display in Figure 18 displays scatterplots of the original data. The
eforensics-plot in Figure 18(a) shows a number of distributional irregularities, but the
  24
    The included polling stations are those from region Gorod Moskva in the polling station count data
obtained from http://www.vybory.izbirkom.ru on December 11, 2011.


                                                 29
most important thing to recognize is that the Moscow polling stations are frequently
among the polling stations represented in the clump at the bottom near the middle of the
residualized-data plot in Figure 8(b). Figure 18(b) draws in blue ‘x’ characters the polling
stations Enikolopov et al. (2013) experimentally assigned to have observers, in red triangles
the polling stations that have eforensics-frauds and in green circles the remaining polling
stations. Clearly the experimentally observed polling stations have lower turnout and vote
proportions for the leader than do the rest of the polling stations. Moreover no
experimentally observed polling stations is eforensics-fraudulent. Figure 19 additionally
uses distinct characters for the neighboring polling stations: neighbors appear either as tan
crosses or red asterisks; the latter are eforensics-fraudulent. Neighors of experimentally
observed polling stations mostly but not entirely avoid having eforensics-frauds.
   The experiment induces lost votes that primarily reduce the leader’s support. For the
eforensics estimates reported in Table 23, I included “is observed” and “is neighbor”
dummy variables as regressors for turnout and vote choice. Both variables have negative
coefficients in both equations, which reaffirms the findings of Enikolopov et al. (2013).
Beyond these reductions in leader support, eforensics finds Fw = 65338.9: a larger
number of eforensics-frauds are estimated when the experimental observation design is
taken into account than when it is not; the 99.5% credible interval for Fw in Table 23 is
strictly greater than is the corresponding interval in Table 22. Still ρM 0 > 0 even if now
δM 0 has an indeterminate sign.
   Most important for the purpose of understanding posterior MCMC multimodality and
lost vote mechanisms, in Table 23 D(π2 )  0 and M (π2 ) is probably too small to matter.
Taking the experiment into account in turnout and vote choice—hence accurately
accounting for the principal source of lost votes—apparently eliminates the posterior
MCMC multimodality.




                                              30
3.4       Lost Votes in Argentina 2015 President Elections

The 2015 president election in Argentina, which required two rounds of voting, exhibits lost
votes in an unusual but easy to understand way. Lost votes that affect eforensics appear
for only one the rounds.
       Figure 20 shows eforensics-plots for mesa data from the first round. Voting is
compulsory in Argentina, but from the original data in Figure 20(a) it is obvious that not
everyone votes. Blank votes are included as votes cast, and the leader is the candidate with
the most votes (Daniel Scioli of Frente para la Victoria, FPV). In Figure 20(b)
departamento fixed effects are removed. A trailing of mesas that have very low turnout
even when departamento means are removed is apparent.
       Zhang, Alvarez and Levin (2019) use a rich collection of covariates in simulation and
random forest methods to study anomalies in the first round election. They find only
86.3% of mesas are “Clean.”
       Estimates using eforensics imply that eforensics-frauds in the first round are scant.
Table 24, using a model specification without fixed effects, reports Fw = 2894.2 out of
Pn
  i=1 Wi = 9002242: 2894.2/9002242 = .000321. Both ρM 0 and ρS0 have indeterminate

signs, but only 31 of 92204 mesas have incremental frauds. Only 10 mesas have extreme
frauds. Both because Zhang, Alvarez and Levin (2019) used several covariates and because
posterior MCMC multimodality is apparent—D(π2 ) = 0 and M (π2 ) = .0177—there are
strong reasons to include geographic fixed effects. Demographic variables may work better,
but elsewhere I discuss the risks of using covariates that match aggregation unit behavior
too closely.
       The 99 departamentos I distinguish to define fixed effects for the eforensics
specification used in Table 25 seem reasonably sufficient to reveal whether including
demographic or other variables would greatly change the results.25 Table 25 reports that
  25
   In each province I combine all departamentos with fewer than 350 electors into a set that I treat as a
“small” departamento.




                                                   31
with departamento fixed effects for turnout and vote choice eforensics-frauds do increase
but only to Fw = 6326.1. The number of eforensics-fraudulent votes nearly doubles when
compared to the specification that omits fixed effects, but still the estimate is well short of
what Zhang, Alvarez and Levin (2019) find: 6326.1/9002242 = .000703; ϕ = .00168. Now
both ρM 0 < 0 and ρS0 < 0, which suggests that many of the incremental frauds may stem
from strategic elector behavior: there were six candidates with a majority rule, and the top
three received proportions .21, .34 and .37 of the votes; the outcome resembles Bouton and
Gratton (2015)’s “Duverger’s hypothesis equilibrium.” Only 5 mesas have extreme frauds.
That D(π2 ) = 1 and M (π2 ) = .0015 suggests there is not posterior MCMC multimodality,
hence there is little reason to doubt the adequacy of the eforensics model specification
used to produce Table 25’s estimates.
   The eforensics-plots for round 2, shown in Figure 21, display a tail of mesas that
have very low turnout that is more extensive than occurs for round 1. Despite the apparent
expansive spread of those mesas, it is important to notice the implication of the marginal
histogram at the top of each graph: only a small proportion of the mesas have such low
turnout; precisely, 2014 of the 92632 mesas have a turnout proportion less than .6.
Nonetheless are those mesas asymmetric lost votes—perhaps involving would-be
supporters of opposition candidates more than of the leader—of a kind that triggers
posterior MCMC multimodality? The leader is the party that received the most votes,
Mauricio Macri of Cambiemos.
   Table 26 reports eforensics for a model specification that omits fixed effects (Table
26(a)) and one that includes departamento fixed effects for turnout and vote choice (Table
26(b)). Interestingly the specification that lacks fixed effects also lacks signs of posterior
MCMC multimodality, while the model that includes fixed effects has D(π2 ) = 0 and
M (π2 ) = .0913. For both specifications the eforensics-frauds are few and small: Table 27
reports no incremental frauds and scant extreme frauds, with very small Fw values.
   That apparent posterior MCMC multimodality increases when fixed effects are specified


                                               32
for turnout and vote choice suggests fixed effects ought to be applied as well to the
eforensics-frauds magnitudes parameters. As reported in Table 28, with that change the
estimates change considerably. Now more mesas have eforensics-frauds than have no
frauds, even though π1 = .538, and Fw = 1450675.7 (out of ni=1 Wi = 12711629). Signs of
                                                         P

posterior MCMC multimodality are ample: D(π2 ) = 0 and M (π2 ) = .152.
      Strategic abstention might explain the estimates. Strategic abstention can generate
asymmetric lost votes hence posterior MCMC multimodality. By this explanation the long
trail of low turnout mesas in Figure 21 is only the most visible symptom of coordinated
abstentions that pervade the electorate, especially abstentions by would-be opposition
supporters. At least, that seems to be the simplest explanation, supported by Figure 22
which shows that incremental eforensics-frauds and their fixed effects are active in
almost all departamentos, and a few ρM j values have indeterminate signs.26 Extreme frauds
are both rarer and less diverse. The eforensics model is misspecified, but nonetheless the
estimates reveal a potentially interesting feature of the election, one that may help to
explain the election’s otherwise surprising outcome, even though assessment solely of
malevolent distortions of electors’ intentions is made more difficult.


3.5       Lost Votes in Three U.S. President Elections

At least three recent elections for president in the United States have featured
consequential lost votes. Of the three I’ll briefly discuss in this section, two elections were
arguably decided for the whole country by lost votes and for the third the outcome in a key
state was decided by lost votes. The three examples are Florida 2000, Ohio 2004 and
Wisconsin 2016.


Florida 2000 In 2000 in Florida incompetent election administration caused tens of
thousands votes to be lost (Wand, Shotts, Sekhon, Mebane, Herron and Brady 2001;
 26
      Recall the caveat in note 23, which also applies here.



                                                       33
Wolter, Jergovic, Moor, Murphy and O’Muircheartaigh 2003; Mebane 2004), and there
were efforts to suppress voters (Berman 2015). With an official margin of 537 votes in favor
of the leader (George W. Bush, Republican), almost every one of the administrative
failures in that election was decisive in producing the wrong winner, because most of the
failures most adversely affected electors who supported opposition. In the
eforensics-plots shown in Figure 23, the display of the original data reveals a tendency
for precincts with lower turnout to vote less favorably for the leader than do precincts with
higher turnout. The plot with county fixed effects removed (Figure 23(b)) features readily
visible clumps, even though among the elections with entropy shown in Tables 5 and 6, the
Florida 2000 president election has relatively high efficiency.
   Estimates for the eforensics model reported in Table 29 show that
eforensics-fraudulent votes greatly exceed the official margin of victory: Fw = 85359.7.
The model specification includes county fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes. Signs of posterior MCMC multimodality persist:
M (π2 ) = .0155. Only incremental frauds are active, and Figure 24 displays
eforensics-frauds magnitudes fixed effects. These fixed effects are active for most
counties and are diverse. Notably the third greatest fixed effect (posterior mean) for
manufactured votes and the greatest for stolen votes are in Duval County, where among all
Florida counties the highest proportion of votes were lost due to a deficient (two-page)
ballot design (Mebane 2004): this illustrates how eforensics appears to represent votes
lost by opposition as votes gained by the leader; the model aliases the lost votes. There is
no evidence that election processes actually added votes for Bush but plenty that
opposition—and particularly Democrat Al Gore—lost more votes than did Bush. Ten
candidates were on the ballot and both ρM 0 < 0 and ρS0 < 0, so it is likely that strategic
elector behavior (particularly wasted-vote behavior and mobilization) contribute to the
estimated incremental frauds, along with the lost votes, although to what extent we cannot
say.


                                              34
Wisconsin 2016 DeCrescenzo and Mayer (2019) use survey and other data to argue
that tens of thousands of electors in Wisconsin in 2016 were prevented from voting because
of their beliefs about onerous voter identification requirements. Table 30 reports estimates
using two eforensics model specifications, one that omits fixed effects and the other that
includes county fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and eforensics-frauds magnitudes.
The leader is the candidate with the most votes (Donald Trump, Republican). For both
models there are strong signs of posterior MCMC multimodality: for the model with fixed
effects, D(π2 ) = 0 and M (π2 ) = .181; votes lost asymmetrically by opposition, as
DeCrescenzo and Mayer (2019) argue occurred, are a likely explanation.
   For the model that lacks fixed effects the posterior mean Fw = 24721.9 exceeds the
margin of 23089 between first-place and second-place in our data, even though
approximately half of the 99.5% credible interval is smaller than the margin. For the model
with fixed effects Fw = 16438.6 is smaller than the margin. In both models all
eforensics-frauds are incremental. Figure 25 shows that the eforensics-frauds
magnitudes fixed effects are active for most counties and diverse. Milwaukee, one of the
two counties on which DeCrescenzo and Mayer (2019) especially focus as having many
deterred electors, has the greatest fixed effect (posterior mean) for manufactured votes.
Again this is likely to be a case where eforensics represents votes lost by opposition as
votes gained by the leader; allegations that voting technologies helped hijack votes for
Trump have not been borne out (Mebane and Bernhard 2019).


Ohio 2004 In the 2004 election for president in Ohio studies revealed many inadequacies
of election administration, including failures in voting technology provision and operations
and confusing ballots (one candidate sort of remained on the ballot while being ineligible to
receive votes), and there were strong allegations of biases that disadvantaged African
American electors (e.g. Voting Rights Institute 2005; Mebane 2005). Long lines and other
problems contributed to thousands of lost votes, although one study that relied on robust



                                             35
overdispersed multinomial regression models concluded that all the various sources of losses
were not enough to have changed the election outcome (Mebane and Herron 2005). The
eforensics-plots shown in Figure 26 are similar to those observed in Florida 2000 (Figure
23) in that precincts with lower turnout tend to vote less favorably for the leader (George
W. Bush, Republican) than do precincts with higher turnout. As does the Florida 2000
president election, the Ohio 2004 president election has relatively high efficiency (Tables 5
and 6).
   Estimates of eforensics model specifications that exclude fixed effects show strong
signs of posterior MCMC multimodality. Also county fixed effects are well motivated
because across counties the recorded levels of turnout vary substantially due to variations
in how recently counties had purged their registered voter rolls (Mebane and Herron 2005).
Table 31 reports estimates for a specification that includes county fixed effects for turnout,
vote choice and eforensics-frauds magnitudes. Right away we see Fw = 177874.2, which
is greater than the margin of 147736 between first- and second-place in our data. If
eforensics-fraudulent votes are removed the leader has less than a majority of the votes:
originally the leader’s vote proportion is .511, but removing eforensics-frauds produces
(2766860 − 177874.2)/(5411161 − 79378.2) = .486. If the stolen votes are all added to the
votes for the second-place candidate (John Kerry, Democrat), then that candidate’s
proportion is
                           2619124 + (177874.2 − 79378.2)
                                                          = .509 .
                                 5411161 − 79378.2

Figure 27 shows that all the fixed effects for active incremental frauds magnitudes
parameters are negative, so the incremental frauds likely include contributions from
strategic elector behavior, in addition to any consequences of lost votes or of malevolent
distortions of electors’ intentions. In Figure 27(a,b) the value for Hamilton County sticks
out as relatively high, and Hamilton is one of only two counties that have active extreme
frauds (Figure 27(c,d)).
   Because I believe the total of eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw includes incremental

                                              36
frauds induced by strategic elector behavior—how many I don’t know—I can’t say whether
these eforensics estimates overturn the conclusion by Mebane and Herron (2005) that
election administration failures (whether accidental or not) did not decide the election
outcome. In view of M (π2 ) = .0160, the eforensics estimates still exhibit posterior
MCMC multimodality (with D(π2 ) = .998).
   Estimates of the eforensics model shown in Table 32 confirm the general message of
Voting Rights Institute (2005) and the specific finding of Mebane (2005) that African
American electors were especially adversely affected by the various deficiencies in the
election process. The specification used to produce Table 32 adds to the fixed effects that
were used for Table 31 an additional variable that increases as the proportion of registered
voters in a precinct who are African American increases.27 The African American variable
is included in the turnout, vote choice and eforensics-frauds magnitudes equations.
Coefficient estimates in Table 32 show that precincts that have a higher proportion African
American tend also to have lower turnout (β1 < 0) and a lower proportion of votes cast for
the leader (γ1 < 0). Such precincts also tend to have larger magnitudes of
eforensics-frauds (ρM 1 > 0, ρS1 > 0, δM 1 > 0, δS1 > 0). These eforensics-frauds
magnitudes coefficients most likely reflect the disparate and excessive impacts of the lost
votes on African American electors: votes lost from supporters of an opposition candidate
appear in eforensics estimates as eforensics-fraudulent votes for the leader. With the
African American variable taken into account as in the eforensics model of Table 32,
Fw = 117786.3.
   Signs of posterior MCMC multimodality remain apparent in the estimates reported in
Table 32, indeed these are slightly stronger than they were for the model specification that
omitted the African American variable: D(π2 ) = .020 and M (π2 ) = .0181. Perhaps, similar
to the case of Argentina 2015 president round 2 (Table 28), including the additional
  27
     Technically the “African American” variable is the logit of the precinct proportion of electors who
are African American, where the observed proportions are censored into the interval [.0001, .9999] before
computing the logit.



                                                   37
covariate has produced better signals about the importance of lost votes. Likely the
eforensics estimates reported in Table 32 remain distorted—aliased—to an unknown
extent by lost votes, even though the principal conclusions the model suggests are plausible.




                                             38
References

Alesina, Alberto and Howard Rosenthal. 1995. Partisan Politics, Divided Government, and
  the Economy. New York: Cambridge.
Alvarez, R. Michael, Jennifer Morrell, Ronald Rivest, Philip Stark and Charles Stewart, III,
  eds. 2019. Election Auditing: Key Issues and Perspectives, Summary Report, Election
  Audit Summit, December 7–8, 2018. Cambridge, MA: MIT Election Data & Science Lab.
Arbatskaya, Marina. 2004. How Many Voters Are there in Russia? (Political-geographical
  analysis of a General Number of the Russian Voters and Level of their Activity. 1990-2004)
  (In Russian: Skol’ko zhe izbiratelei v Rossii? (Politiko-geograficheskii analiz obschego
  chisla rossiiskih izbiratelei i urovnya ih aktivnosti. 1990-2004)). Irkutsk: Institute of
  Geography SB RAS.
Bangladesh Election Commission. 2002. “Statistical Report: 8th Jatiya Shangshad Elec-
  tion, October 1, 2001.” April 2002 edition, URL: http://www.ecs.gov.bd/index.php3
  (accessed August 22, 2007).
Berch, Neil. 1989. “Another Look at Closeness and Turnout: The Case of the 1979 and 1980
  Canadian National Elections.” Political Research Quarterly 46(2):421–432.
Berman, Ari. 2015. “How the 2000 Election in Florida Led to a New Wave of Voter Disenfran-
  chisement: A Botched Voter Purge Prevented Thousands from Voting—and Empowered
  a New Generation of Voting-rights Critics.” The Nation . July 28, 2015.
Birch, Sarah. 2011. Electoral Malpractice. New York: Oxford.
Borghesi, C. and J. P. Bouchaud. 2010. “Spatial Correlations in Vote Statistics: A Diffusive
  Field Model for Decision-making.” European Physical Journal B 75(3):395–404.
Bouton, Laurent and Gabrielle Gratton. 2015. “Majority runoff elections: Strategic voting
  and Duverger’s hypothesis.” Theoretical Economics 10:283–314.
Bundestag,    Deutscher.    March     3,   2006.        Erste    Beschlussempfehlung    des
  Wahlprüfungsausschusses zu 51 gegen die Gültigkeit der Wahl zum 16. Deutschen
  Bundestag eingegangenen Wahleinsprüchen. Number 16/900.

                                            39
Cantú, Francisco. 2019. “The Fingerprints of Fraud: Evidence from Mexico’s 1988 Presi-
  dential Election.” American Political Science Review 113(3):710–726.
Central   Electoral.   2019.         “¿Sabes       qué   son   las   casillas   especiales?”
  URL:              https://centralelectoral.ine.mx/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/
  Casilla-Especial-comprimido.pdf.
Centre for Research and Information. 2002. A Rigged Election: An Illegitimate Government:
  Bangladesh Election 2001. Dhanmondi: Centre for Research and Information.
Conseil Constitutionnel. 2017. “Décision no 2017-5098/5159 AN du 18 décembre 2017.”
  https://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/decision/2017/20175098_5159AN.htm.
Cox, Gary W. 1994. “Strategic Voting Equilibria Under the Single Nontransferable Vote.”
  American Political Science Review 88:608–621.
Cox, Gary W. and Michael C. Munger. 1989. “Closeness, Expenditures, and Turnout in the
  1982 U.S. House Elections.” American Political Science Review 83(1):217–231.
Dahl, Robert A. 1956. A Preface to Democratic Theory. Chicago: University of Chicago.
DeCrescenzo, Michael G. and Kenneth R. Mayer. 2019. “Voter Identification and Nonvoting
  in Wisconsin–Evidence from the 2016 Election.” Election Law Journal 18(4).
Democracy International. 2009. “Results by PS - PDF data only - 16 Sept 2009.xlsx.” File
  provided on 28 Sep 2009 by Bill Gallery.
Denwood, Matthew J. 2016. “runjags: An R Package Providing Interface Utilities, Model
  Templates, Parallel Computing Methods and Additional Distributions for MCMC Models
  in JAGS.” Journal of Statistical Software 71(9):1–25.
Devlin, Michelle. 2012. “Angry Canadians Demand Inquiry into ’Robogate’.” March 2, 2012.
  URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20140305061745/http://www.allvoices.com/
  contributed-news/11628935-angry-canadians-demand-inquiry-into-robogate.
Elections Canada. 2022.        “Chapter 12        Special Voting Rules (11/2022).” URL:
  https://www.elections.ca/content.aspx?section=res&dir=pub/ecdocs/rom/
  vII/ch_12&document=ch_12&lang=e#12.1.


                                             40
Electoral Complaints Commission. 2010. “Electoral Complaints Commission Final Report:
  2009 Presidential and Provincial Council Elections.” ECC Final Report 2009.pdf.
Enikolopov, Ruben, Vasily Korovkin, Maria Petrova, Konstantin Sonin and Alexei Zakharov.
  2013. “Field Experiment Estimate of Electoral Fraud in Russian Parliamentary Elections.”
  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110(2):448–452.
European Union. 2001. “Bangladesh Parliamentary Elections 1 October 2001, European
  Union Election Observation Mission Final Report.” URL: https://www.ecoi.net/en/
  file/local/1412745/625_tmpphpGBRYSw.pdf.
Feddersen, Timothy J. and Wolfgang Pesendorfer. 1999. “Abstention in Elections with
  Asymmetric Information and Diverse Preferences.” American Political Science Review
  93(2):381–398.
Ferrari, Diogo, Walter Mebane, Kevin McAlister and Patrick Wu. 2019. Election Forensics:
  Positive Empirical Models of Election Fraud. R package version 0.0.4 (Supported by
  NSF grant SES 1523355). Initial version: August 27, 2019. URL: https://github.com/
  UMeforensics/eforensics_public.
Flegal, James M. and J. Hughes. 2012. “mcmcse: Monte Carlo Standard Errors for MCMC.”
  Riverside, CA and Minneapolis, MN. R package version.
Flegal, James M., Murali Haran and Galin L Jones. 2008. “Markov Chain Monte Carlo:
  Can We Trust the Third Significant Figure?” Statistical Science 23(2):250–260.
Gong, Lei and James M. Flegal. 2016. “A Practical Sequential Stopping Rule for High-
  dimensional Markov Chain Monte Carlo.” Journal of Computational and Graphical Statis-
  tics 25(3):684–700.
Grün, Bettina and Friedrich Leisch. 2009. “Dealing with Label Switching in Mixture Models
  Under Genuine Multimodality.” Journal of Multivariate Analysis 100:851–861.
Harfst, Philipp, André Blais and Damien Bol. 2018. Voting Strategically in Two-Vote Elec-
  tions. In The Many Faces of Strategic Voting: Tactical Behavior in Electoral Systems
  Around the World, ed. Laura B. Stephenson, John H. Aldrich and André Blais. Ann


                                           41
  Arbor, MI: University of Michigan pp. 150–177.
Hartigan, J. A. and P. M. Hartigan. 1985. “The Dip Test of Unimodality.” Annals of Statistics
  13:70–84.
Jamieson, Kathleen Hall. 2018. Cyberwar: How Russian Hackers and Trolls Helped Elect a
  President—What We Don’t, Can’t, and Do Know. Oxford: Oxford UP.
Jones, Galin L., Murali Haran, Brian S. Caffo and Ronald Neath. 2006. “Fixed-width Output
  Analysis for Markov Chain Monte Carlo.” Journal of the American Statistical Association
  101(476):1537–1547.
Kawai, Kei and Yasutora Watanabe. 2013. “Inferring Strategic Voting.” American Economic
  Review 103(2):624–662.
Klaver, Joseph. 2023. “Cancelled Contests: Mediating Election Disputes Through Institu-
  tions.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of Michigan, February 2023.
Klaver, Joseph and Walter R. Mebane, Jr. 2022. “Policing Fraud in France: Balancing
  Political Realities while Monitoring Malfeasance.” Presented at the 2022 Annual Meeting
  of the Midwest Political Science Association, Chicago, IL, April 7–10, 2022.
Klesner, Joseph L. 2007. “The July 2006 Presidential and Congressional Elections in Mex-
  ico.” Electoral Studies 26(4):803–808.
Klimek, Peter, Raúl Jiménez, Manuel Hidalgo, Abraham Hinteregger and Stefan Thurner.
  2018. “Forensic Analysis of Turkish Elections in 2017–2018.” PLOS One 13(10):e0204975.
Klimek, Peter, Yuri Yegorov, Rudolf Hanel and Stefan Thurner. 2012. “Statistical Detection
  of Systematic Election Irregularities.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
  109(41):16469–16473.
Kuhn, Raymond. 2018. “French Revolution? The 2017 Presidential and Parliamentary
  Elections.” Parliamentary Affairs 71(3):483–500.
Lehoucq, Fabrice. 2003. “Electoral Fraud: Causes, Types, and Consequences.” Annual
  Review of Political Science 6:233–256.
Maddala, G. S., ed. 1983. Limited-dependent and Qualitative Variables in Econometrics.


                                             42
  New York: Cambridge.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. 2000. “Coordination, Moderation, and Institutional Balancing in
  American Presidential and House Elections.” American Political Science Review 94:37–
  57.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. 2004. “The Wrong Man is President! Overvotes in the 2000 Presi-
  dential Election in Florida.” Perspectives on Politics 2:525–535.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. 2005. “Voting Machine Allocation in Franklin County, Ohio, 2004:
  Response to U.S. Department of Justice Letter of June 29, 2005.” Unpublished MS.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. 2008. Election Forensics: The Second-digit Benford’s Law Test
  and Recent American Presidential Elections. In The Art and Science of Studying Election
  Fraud: Detection, Prevention, and Consequences, ed. R. Michael Alvarez, Thad E. Hall
  and Susan D. Hyde. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. 2014. Can Votes Counts’ Digits and Benford’s Law Diagnose Elec-
  tions? In The Theory and Applications of Benford’s Law, ed. Steven J. Miller. New York:
  Princeton pp. 206–216.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. and Joseph Klaver. 2015. “Election Forensics: Strategies versus
  Election Frauds in Germany.” Paper presented at the 2015 Annual Conference of the
  European Political Science Association, Vienna, Austria, June 25–27, 2015.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. and Matthew Bernhard. 2019. Voting Technologies, Recount Methods
  and Votes in Wisconsin and Michigan in 2016. In Financial Cryptography and Data Se-
  curity: FC 2018 International Workshops BITCOIN, VOTING, and WTSC, Nieuwpoort,
  Curaçao, March 2, 2018, Revised Selected Papers, ed. Aviv Zohar, Ittay Eyal, Vanessa
  Teague, Jeremy Clark, Andrea Bracciali, Federico Pintore and Massimiliano Sala. Berlin,
  Germany: Springer pp. 196–209.
Mebane, Jr., Walter R. and Michael C. Herron. 2005. Ohio 2004 Election: Turnout, Residual
  Votes and Votes in Precincts and Wards. In Democracy at Risk: The 2004 Election in
  Ohio, ed. Democratic National Committee Voting Rights Institute. Washington, D.C.:


                                             43
  Democratic National Committee.
Ministère de l’Intérieur. 2021.   “Les bureaux de vote.” Published 17/12/2021 https:
  //www.elections.interieur.gouv.fr/comprendre-elections/comment-je-vote/
  bureaux-de-vote.
Montgomery, Jacob M., Santiago Olivella, Joshua D. Potter and Brian F. Crisp. 2015.
  “An Informed Forensics Approach to Detecting Vote Irregularities.” Political Analysis
  23(4):488–505.
Myagkov, Mikhail, Peter C. Ordeshook and Dimitry Shaikin. 2009. The Forensics of Election
  Fraud: With Applications to Russia and Ukraine. New York: Cambridge.
Norris, Pippa. 2014. Why Electoral Integrity Matters. New York: Cambridge.
Pettigrew, Stephen. 2017. “The Racial Gap in Wait Times: Why Minority Precincts Are
  Underserved by Local Election Officials.” Political Science Quarterly 132(3):527–547.
Plummer, Martyn, Alexey Stukalov and Matt Denwood. 2016. “rjags: Bayesian Graphi-
  cal Models using MCMC.” URL https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rjags/
  index.html, linked to JAGS 4.2.0.
Riker, William H. 1982. Liberalism Against Populism: A Confrontation Between the Theory
  of Democracy and the Theory of Social Choice. Prospect Heights, IL: Waveland.
Rozenas, Arturas. 2017. “Detecting Election Fraud from Irregularities in Vote-Share Distri-
  butions.” Political Analysis 25(1):41–56.
Rundlett, Ashlea and Milan W. Svolik. 2016. “Deliver the Vote! Micromotives and Mac-
  robehavior in Electoral Fraud.” American Political Science Review 110(1):180–197.
Schedler, Andreas, ed. 2006. Electoral Authoritarianism: The Dynamics of Unfree Competi-
  tion. Boulder and London: Lynne Rienner Publishers.
Shikano, Susumu, Michael Herrmann and Paul W. Thurner. 2009. “Strategic Voting under
  Proportional Representation: Threshold Insurance in German Elections.” West European
  Politics 32(3):634–656.
Simpser, Alberto. 2013. Why Governments and Parties Manipulate Elections: Theory, Prac-


                                              44
  tice, and Implications. New York: Cambridge.
Stephenson, Laura B., John H. Aldrich and André Blais, eds. 2018. The Many Faces of
  Strategic Voting: Tactical Behavior in Electoral Systems Around the World. Ann Arbor,
  MI: University of Michigan.
Svolik, Milan. 2012. The Politics of Authoritarian Rule. New York: Cambridge.
Tanner, Martin A. 1986. Tools for Statistical Inference: Methods for the Exploration of
  Posterior Distributions and Likelihood Functions. 3 ed. New York: Springer-Verlag.
Voting Rights Institute, Democratic National Committee. 2005. Democracy at Risk: The
  2004 Election in Ohio. Washington, D.C.: Democratic National Committee.
Wand, Jonathan, Kenneth Shotts, Jasjeet S. Sekhon, Walter R. Mebane, Jr., Michael Herron
  and Henry E. Brady. 2001. “The Butterfly Did It: The Aberrant Vote for Buchanan in
  Palm Beach County, Florida.” American Political Science Review 95:793–810.
Wang, Tova Andrea. 2012. The Politics of Voter Suppression: Defending and Expanding
  Americans’ Right to Vote. Ithaca, NY: Cornell.
Wikipedia. 2023. “2021 German federal election.” URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/
  2021_German_federal_election (page was last edited on 24 June 2023, at 14:24 (UTC)).
Wolter, Kirk, Diana Jergovic, Whitney Moor, Joe Murphy and Colm O’Muircheartaigh.
  2003. “Reliability of the Uncertified Ballots in the 2000 Presidential Election in Florida.”
  The American Statistician 57(1):1–14.
Zhang, Mali, R. Michael Alvarez and Ines Levin. 2019. “Election Forensics: Using Ma-
  chine Learning and Synthetic Data for Possible Election Anomaly Detection.” PLOS ONE
  14(10):e0223950.




                                             45
       Figure 1: eforensics-plots: France 2017 National Assembly, Second Round




 (a) original data




 (b) district-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables 1.
Table 1: France 2017 National Assembly Election, Second Round, BVT Data eforensics
Estimates, District Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean        loa       upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .990           .987      .992
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .0102           .00765    .0134
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .000106 .0000301 .000191
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) −.407        −.422    −.394
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) .420          .404      .437
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.141        −.264    −.0455
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.0598       −.112    −.0301
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.0493       −.133      .0106
                             δS0             (Intercept) .0108        −.0466     .0696
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .988.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .00435; M (π2 ) = .00436; M (π3 ) = .00000679.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (478 incremental, 6 extreme, 68276 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 22471.8 [20307.3, 24037.5]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 22393.4 [20236.7, 23961.1]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 78.3 [43.7, 95.6]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 28719.6 [25598.0, 30806.6]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 28620.4 [25515.9, 30705.8]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 99.1 [55.2, 120.0]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). District fixed effects for turnout and vote choice are
not
Pn shown. n = 68760P    bureaux units. Electors,
                                             Pn valid votes and votes     for the leader:
                         n                                            a
   i=1 Ni = 47289715;    i=1 Vi = 18176066;     i=1 Wi = 10970881.      95% HPD lower bound.
b
  95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
Table 2: 2017 Conseil Constitutionnel cases regressed on bureaux eforensics-frauds pooled
by district
                                              (A) number of cases
                            a               b
 regressor                (a)             (b)              (c)b              (d)b
 Intercept              .00402           −.141            −.144             −.145
                        (.0983)     [−.249, −.0313] [−.253, −.0268]    [−.246, −.340]
 M                    −.0000277             —               —                 —
                       .0000172             —               —                 —
 Ft /(M + 1)               —              .179              —               −.599
                           —          [.100, .262]          —         [−1.80, −.00713]
 (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1)        —                —              .869              3.55
                           —                —          [.477, 1.26]      [.833, 9.32]
 n of districts           572              572              572              572
 AICc                   1516.1           1518.7           1518.1            1519.4

                                     (B) annulments
                                b
 regressor                  (e)            (f)b           (g)b
 Intercept                 −5.76          −5.77          −5.79
                      [−6.55, −4.98] [−6.59, −5.00] [−6.52, −4.96]
 Ft /(M + 1)                .795            —              —
                        [.640, .974]        —              —
 (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1)          —             3.73            —
                             —         [2.97, 4.55]        —
 Fw /(M + 1)                 —              —             3.73
                             —              —         [3.03, 4.53]
 n of districts             302            302            302
 AICc                       61.0           60.9           61.0
Note: Poisson and binomial logistic regressions of counts of French 2017 National Assembly
election Conseil Constitutionnel cases and annulments (by district) on bureaux
eforensics-frauds estimates using second round votes. (a–d) are from Poisson regressions
for the number of cases. (e–h) are from binomial logistic regressions for annulment
decisions. Annulment models adjust for censoring. a Coefficient point estimates (robust
standard error) are shown. b Coefficient Normal approximation mean and 95% confidence
interval based on robust covariance matrices are shown. c (b–h) AIC for models using
estimates’ posterior means. M is the vote count difference between first and second in each
district.
Upper bounds of Ft /(M + 1), (Fw − Ft )/(M + 1) and Fw /(M + 1) (lower bounds are
always zero): 6.12, 1.30 and 7.775 for 2017. Product-moment correlation:
cor(Ft /M, (Fw − Ft )/M ) = .981.
                 Figure 2: eforensics-plots: Afghanistan 2009 President




 (a) original data




 (b) province-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables 3 and ??.
                     Figure 3: eforensics-plots: Uganda 2011 President




 (a) original data




 (b) province-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table ??.
         Figure 4: eforensics-plots: Afghanistan 2009 and Uganda 2011 Partial
                       (a) Afghanistan 2009 President




                          (b) Uganda 2011 President




Note: upper-right portions of Figures 2(b) and 3(b). x-axis is Residualized Turnout
Proportion. y-axis is Residualized Presidential Leader Votes Proportion.
           Table 3: Afghanistan 2009 President Election eforensics Estimates
                                                                   95% CIa
          Type            Parameter       Covariate       Mean    lo      up
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud   .907   .893    .926
                              π2     Incremental Fraud    .0351  .0201 .0469
                              π3         Extreme Fraud    .0579  .0530 .0621
 turnout                      γ0             (Intercept) −.622  −.667 −.579
 vote choice                  β0             (Intercept) −.107  −.155 −.0434
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept)  .431   .305    .718
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.775 −1.08   −.593
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) 3.74   3.34    4.10
                             δS0             (Intercept) 2.11   1.75    2.65
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0279; M (π2 ) = .0238; M (π3 ) = .00482.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: 203 incremental, 1419 extreme, 21236 not fraudulent
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 512311.2 [479761.0, 543038.3]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 26066.3 [18155.0, 32322.38]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 486244.9 [461114.1, 510851.5]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 647006.3 [610832.4, 679770.9]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 29984.6 [21176.5, 36676.95]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 617021.7 [589240.5, 643458.8]e

Note: eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and credible intervals).
n
P=   22858 polling station
                      Pn units. Electors, Pvalid votes and votes for the leader:
   n                                         n                   a
       N
   i=1 i  = 13746283;       V
                         i=1 i = 5662758;    i=1 Wi = 3093256.     95% HPD interval. c dip
test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains.
d
  difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean
[99.5% credible interval].
 Table 4: Uganda 2011 President Election eforensics Estimates, Province Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate         Mean         loa        upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .786           .771       .802
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .196            .180       .211
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .0182           .0165      .0200
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) .268          .245       .300
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) .806          .770       .832
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.389        −.445    −.340
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.103        −.176    −.0462
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) .653          .553       .774
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.432        −.680    −.275
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .371; D(π2 ) = .92; D(π3 ) = .998.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0222; M (π2 ) = .0224; M (π3 ) = .000662.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (3921 incremental, 447 extreme, 19459 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 225494.7 [202820.2, 247391.9]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 158839.4 [136558.9, 178784.1]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 66655.3 [64567.6, 69155.7]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 312556.3 [280646.5, 342569.0]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 226407.3 [195922.6, 253788.1]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 86149.0 [83863.6, 89690.5]e


Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). Province fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not   Pnshown. n = 23827 P   polling station units. Electors,
                                                                n
Pn votes and votes afor the leader: i=1 Ni = b13875338; i=1 Vi = 7928276;
valid
   i=1 Wi = 5436639.   95% HPD lower bound. 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for
unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains.
d
  difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean
[99.5% credible interval].
       Table 5: Turnout by Leader Vote Proportion Scatterplot Gridded Entropy 1
                                             Entropy
                                   Residual. Normal Residual.
                                   Observed    Sim.    Data     Sample
                                                   a
                Event                Data     Data   Efficiency  Size  Figure
 Afghanistan 2009 President         8.06      9.96      .9611    22858   2(b)
 Argentina 2015 President, Round 1  9.04     10.7       .9732    92211 20(b)
 Argentina 2015 President, Round 2  9.22     10.9       .9759    92632 21(b)
 Bangladesh 2001                    8.88     10.1       .9935    29499 15(b)
 California 2006 Gov., Partisan     8.70      9.94      .9932    22820 ??(b)
 California 2006 Gov., County       8.83      9.95      .9940    22820 ??(b)
 California 2008 Pres., Partisan    8.31      9.89      .9903    21420 ??(b)
 California 2008 Pres., County      8.32      9.93      .9920    22691 ??(a)
 Canada 2011 Legislature            9.24     10.8       .9708    70303   5(b)
 Florida 2000 President             7.61      8.66      .9986     5941 23(b)
 France 2017 N Assembly, Round 1    9.28     10.7       .9822    69240 ??(b)
 France 2017 N Assembly, Round 2    9.30     10.6       .9842    68760   1(b)
 Germany 2005 Erststimmen           9.51     10.9       .9832    88680 ??(b)
 Germany 2005 Zweitstimmen          9.57     10.9       .9823    88680 ??(d)
 Germany 2021 Erststimmen           9.77     11.0       .9902    94248 ??(b)
 Germany 2021 Zweitstimmen          9.73     10.9       .9849    94248 ??(d)
 Kenya 2017 President               8.80     10.3       .9760    40818 ??(b)
 Kenya 2022 President               9.08     10.5       .9859    46214 ??(b)
 Mexico 2006 Deputies               9.72     11.2       .9815   130448 14(b)
 Mexico 2006 President              9.97     11.2       .9867   130768   6(b)
 Ohio 2004 President                8.37      9.27      .9958    11123 26(b)
 Ohio 2006 U.S. Senate              7.50      9.26      .9971    11123 ??(b)

Note: bivariate (residualized turnout by residualized leader vote proportion) entropy
measures. To compute entropy observations are mapped into grids of 1000 × 1000 cells.
a
  Normal simulation data are generated to have the same covariance matrix as does the
corresponding residualized observed data.
       Table 6: Turnout by Leader Vote Proportion Scatterplot Gridded Entropy 2
                                              Entropy
                                    Residual. Normal Residual.
                                    Observed    Sim.    Data     Sample
                                                    a
               Event                  Data     Data   Efficiency  Size  Figure
 Peru 2021 President Round 1         8.93     10.9       .9579    83366 ??(b)
 Peru 2021 President Round 2         9.10     11.0       .9627    83366 ??(b)
 Philippines 2022 President          9.34     11.0       .9740   105649 ??(b)
 Russia 2011 Duma                   10.3      11.1       .9896    95166   8(b)
 Russia 2012 President              10.1      11.1       .9859    95413 ??(b)
 Russia 2020 Referendum             10.2      11.0       .9866    96239 ??(b)
 South Africa 2014 National          8.76      9.93      .9970    22260 ??(b)
 Turkey 1999 Legislature             9.97     11.3       .9769   208474 ??(b)
 Turkey 2011 Legislature            10.1      11.3       .9775   199555 ??(b)
 Turkey 2015 June                    9.96     11.1       .9780   173850 ??(a)
 Turkey 2015 November                9.99     11.1       .9775   174619 ??(b)
 Turkey 2017 Referendum              9.92     11.1       .9768   171352 ??(b)
 Türkiye 2023 Legislature           9.73     11.1       .9681   191875 ??(b)
 Türkiye 2023 President, Round 1    9.89     11.1       .9729   191863 ??(b)
 Uganda 2006 President               8.64      9.81      .9956    19750 ??(b)
 Uganda 2011 President               8.84      9.98      .9947    23827   3(b)
 Washington 2008 Init. 1000          7.36      8.51      .9924     5180 ??(b)
 Washington 2008 Init. 1029          6.97      8.52      .9899     5180 ??(d)

Note: bivariate (residualized turnout by residualized leader vote proportion) entropy
measures. To compute entropy observations are mapped into grids of 1000 × 1000 cells.
a
  Normal simulation data are generated to have the same covariance matrix as does the
corresponding residualized observed data.
                        Figure 5: eforensics-plots: Canada 2011




 (a) original data




 (b) district- and
 mobile/SVR-
 residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table 15.
                     Figure 6: eforensics-plots: Mexico 2006 President




 (a) original data




 (b) estado- and
 casilla-type-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table ??.
           Figure 7: eforensics-plots: Canada 2011 and Mexico 2006 Partial
                           (a) Canada 2011 Federal




                          (b) Mexico 2006 President




Note: upper-right portions of Figures 5(b) and 6(b). x-axis is Residualized Turnout
Proportion. y-axis is Residualized Presidential Leader Votes Proportion.
               Figure 8: Residualized eforensics-plots: Russia 2011 Duma




 (a) original data




 (b) region-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables ??, ?? and (Moscow only) 22 and
23.
            Table 7: California 2008 Ballot Propositions Proportions and Tests
               total  total vote        YES      NO     multimodality tests
 proposition   votes  proportion        votes   votes   p-valuea max Mb
     1A      12653092    .92             .49     .44    0        .0225
      2      12891960    .94             .60     .34    .0175    .0104
      3      12595906    .92             .51     .41    0        .0252
      4      12905377    .94             .45     .49    0        .0263
      5      12678632    .93             .38     .55    .939     .0107
      6      12341371    .90             .28     .62    0        .131
      7      12614558    .92             .33     .59    0        .0648
      8      13357973    .98             .51     .47    0        .0151
      9      12368772    .90             .49     .42    .0005    .000925
     10      12519816    .91             .37     .54    0        .229
     11      11951347    .87             .44     .43    0        .0209
     12      12245801    .89             .57     .33    0        .00367

Note: a Minimum p-value from dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains for π1 , π2 or π3 . b Maximum difference across π1 , π2
and π3 between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means.
Proposition descriptions (results): 1A, high-speed rail bonds (Y); 2, minimum space
requirements for calves, pigs and hens (Y); 3, children’s hospitals bonds (Y); 4, minor
abortion parental notification (N); 5, drug crime policy, sentencing and rehabilitation (N);
6, gang-related criminal laws, law enforcement funding, and parole agent caseloads (N); 7,
renewable portfolio standards (N); 8, defines marriage as between one man and one
woman, reversing legal same-sex marriage in California (Y); 9, rights of crime victims (Y);
10, alternative fuel project bonds (N); 11, legislative redistricting power (N); 12, bonds to
provide loans to veterans to purchase homes or farms (Y). Descriptions edited from
https://ballotpedia.org/California_2008_ballot_propositions.
     Table 8: California 2008 Ballot Propositions 1A–5 eforensics-fraudulent Votes
 (a) Proposition 1A:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (3 incremental, 8 extreme, 22679 not fraudulent)
   manufactured votes                  Ft = 744.0 [381.3, 1478.7]a
      incremental manufactured            Ft = 128.3 [0.0, 243.8]a
      extreme manufactured                Ft = 615.7 [249.3, 1407.0]a
   total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 1415.0 [768.6, 2556.2]a
      incremental total                   Fw = 235.9 [0.0, 470.6]a
      extreme total                       Fw = 1179.1 [535.2, 2357.3]a
 (b) Proposition 2:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (4 incremental, 8 extreme, 22677 not fraudulent)
   manufactured votes                  Ft = 566.1 [250.8, 968.3]a
      incremental manufactured            Ft = 189.9 [0.0, 426.3]a
      extreme manufactured                Ft = 376.2 [217.1, 552.3]a
   total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 1341.7 [731.4, 2128.5]a
      incremental total                   Fw = 256.2 [0.0, 569.2]a
      extreme total                       Fw = 1085.5 [652.7, 1572.2]a
 (c) Proposition 3:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (2 incremental, 0 extreme, 22689 not fraudulent)
   manufactured votes                  Ft = 64.1 [0.0, 164.7]a
   total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 157.1 [0.0, 443.4]a
 (d) Proposition 4:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (2012 incremental, 12 extreme, 20666 not fraudulent)
   manufactured votes                  Ft = 99814.4 [87429.4, 125829.6]a
      incremental manufactured            Ft = 98437.9 [86072.3, 123705.3]a
      extreme manufactured                Ft = 1376.5 [904.1, 2163.0]a
   total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 266540.5 [245813.8, 283159.5]a
      incremental total                   Fw = 263205.1 [242311.1, 280121.3]a
      extreme total                       Fw = 3335.4 [2506.8, 4184.0]a
 (e) Proposition 5:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (1247 incremental, 6 extreme, 21435 not fraudulent)
   manufactured votes                  Ft = 37184.3 [30792.6, 41689.9]a
      incremental manufactured            Ft = 36918.7 [30522.0, 41427.1]a
      extreme manufactured                Ft = 265.6 [164.5, 355.7]a
   total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 57579.5 [48242.2, 63007.2]a
      incremental total                   Fw = 56914.4 [47678.0, 62364.2]a
      extreme total                       Fw = 665.1 [410.8, 934.3]a

Note: a posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
     Table 9: California 2008 Ballot Propositions 6–12 eforensics-fraudulent Votes
 (a) Proposition 6:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (2215 incremental, 7 extreme, 20468 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 78140.8 [33058.9, 99263.9]a
       incremental manufactured           Ft = 77789.0 [32848.2, 98844.0]a
       extreme manufactured               Ft = 351.9 [95.9, 456.5]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 117009.2 [48898.9, 145697.8]a
       incremental total                  Fw = 116033.1 [48606.1, 144541.3]a
       extreme total                      Fw = 976.0 [171.0, 1385.5]a
 (b) Proposition 7:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (10541 incremental, 3 extreme, 12144 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 434512.8 [376824.6, 480583.7]a
       incremental manufactured           Ft = 434260.8 [376570.9, 480300.8]a
       extreme manufactured               Ft = 252.0 [155.0, 293.9]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 681066.7 [593296.8, 741868.1]a
       incremental total                  Fw = 680545.1 [592737.1, 741285.5]a
       extreme total                      Fw = 521.6 [314.9, 600.1]a
 (c) Proposition 8:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (33 incremental, 4 extreme, 22652 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 1613.2 [1034.6, 2095.8]a
       incremental manufactured           Ft = 1443.4 [976.5, 1822.3]a
       extreme manufactured               Ft = 169.9 [48.3, 293.6]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 2951.2 [1941.4, 3874.3]a
       incremental total                  Fw = 2576.2 [1766.3, 3300.9]a
       extreme total                      Fw = 375.0 [144.5, 607.0]a
 (d) Proposition 9:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (0 incremental, 0 extreme, 22689 not fraudulent)
 (e) Proposition 10:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (6991 incremental, 0 extreme, 15699 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 336897.4 [207955.8, 408075.6]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 497603.5 [293969.0, 594491.7]a
 (f) Proposition 11:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (832 incremental, 0 extreme, 21858 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 27254.2 [17434.0, 36843.8]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 45895.1 [33894.3, 55132.5]a
 (g) Proposition 12:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (4 incremental, 0 extreme, 22686 not fraudulent)
    manufactured votes                 Ft = 118.3 [32.4, 249.1]a
    total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 308.9 [79.1, 772.0]a

Note: a posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
Table 10: Numbers of Constitutional Amendments, Ballot Propositions, Etc. by Election
Year
     election    num     election                                                                                          num         election   num
 California 2006   13 Alaska 2006                                                                                            2    Georgia 2018      7
 California 2008   12 Florida 2006                                                                                           6    Virginia 2006     3
 California 2010    9 Florida 2008                                                                                           6    Washington 2008   3
 California 2012   11 Georgia 2006                                                                                           3



                                                        Figure 9: Ballot Proposition Proportions and MCMC Multimodality
                                                                                  (a)                                                                                                                                   (b)




 MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference                                                                                           MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference
                                                                                            ●                                                                                                                                   ●



                                           0.30                                                                                                                              0.30


                                           0.25                                                                                                                              0.25
                                                                                    ●                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                               ●                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                              ●                                                                                                                     ●
                                           0.20                                                                                                                              0.20
                                                                                                           ●                                                                                                    ●

                                                                                                                   ●                                                                                                ●



                                           0.15                               ●
                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                             0.15                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                              ●                                                                                                                                                     ●


                                           0.10                          ●
                                                                         ●                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                             0.10                                ●                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●


                                                                                        ●       ●                                                                                                                       ●           ●
                                                                                                ●                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                           0.05                                                 ●                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                             0.05                       ●                                                   ●

                                                                                        ●       ●                           ●                                                            ●       ●                          ●
                                                                 ●                      ●   ●                                                                                         ●     ●                   ●
                                                                     ●                  ●   ● ●●
                                                                                           ●●         ●●           ●                                                                   ●●●                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●           ●               ●   ●      ●●
                                                                 ●       ●                      ● ● ● ●        ●       ●                                                                 ● ● ● ●●      ● ●              ●           ●●●
                                           0.00                                                                                                                              0.00
                                                             ●                ●     ●       ● ●●  ●   ●            ●                                                                                     ●      ●
                                                  ●          ●       ●   ●    ●         ● ●●●
                                                                                            ● ●● ●●
                                                                                                  ●   ●
                                                                                                      ●        ●
                                                                                                                       ●                                                              ●   ●● ●●● ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ● ●       ●● ●    ●●●             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●                       ●   ●



                                                      0.85                   0.90                   0.95                   1.00                                                     0.50     0.55       0.60            0.65        0.70        0.75            0.80

                                                         proportion voting either yes or no                                                                                         maximum of proportion yes or proportion no


Note: maximum absolute difference in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific
posterior means (y-axis) by (a) the proportion voting either yes or no on a statewide ballot
propostion or (b) maximum of proportion voting yes or proportion voting no (x-axis).
n = 75 (observation count by state: CA 45; AK 2; FL 12; GA 10; VA 3; WA 3).
 Table 11: MCMC Multimodalitya Conditioned on Ballot Proposition Voting Proportions
          covariate             (1)        (2)       (3)
 (Intercept)                  −.00602    −.0861      1.65
                                (.183)   (.0464)   (1.34)
 proportion voting               .0480        —    −2.77
                                (.197)        —    (2.22)
 max proportion Yes or No           —       .199   −1.86
                                    —    (.0777)   (1.43)
 prop. voting × max Y or N          —         —      3.18
                                    —         —    (2.38)
 RMSE                            .0673     .0649    .0651
 Adjusted R2                  −.01311      .0588    .0524

Note: regression model of M (π2 ) coefficient estimates (robust standard error). n = 75
constitutional amendments, initiatives, propositions and referenda (observation count by
state: CA 45; AK 2; FL 12; GA 10; VA 3; WA 3). a M (π2 ): maximum absolute difference
in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means.
                                                                       Figure 10: MCMC Multimodality and eforensics-frauds




 proportion eforensics−fraudulent votes
                                          0.06
                                                                                                           ●
                                                   ●
                                                   ●



                                          0.05                          ●



                                                   ●
                                          0.04         ●


                                                                   ●
                                                  ●
                                          0.03
                                                           ●
                                                                       ●

                                          0.02                 ●

                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                               ●
                                                       ●

                                          0.01     ●                               ●
                                                                                           ●
                                                                             ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●●  ●●●                                                                    ●
                                                  ●  ●●
                                                     ●                                 ●               ●
                                                     ●●●                    ●

                                          0.00
                                                  ●
                                                  ● ●
                                                    ●
                                                   ●●● ●● ●                 ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ● ●
                                                    ●●
                                                     ●●● ●●
                                                          ●        ●    ●                          ●




                                                 0.00              0.05     0.10       0.15    0.20            0.25   0.30

                                                 MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference


Note: eforensics-fraudulent votes as a proportion of the number of voters (Fw /N )
(y-axis) by maximum absolute difference in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific
posterior means (x-axis). n = 75 (observation count by state: CA 45; AK 2; FL 12; GA 10;
VA 3; WA 3).
                                                     Figure 11: MCMC Multimodality and eforensics-fraud Components B
                                              (a) incremental manufactured                                                                                                      (b) incremental stolen

                                                                                                                                                          0.05




 proportion incremental manufactured
                                                ●                                                                                                                   ●


                                       0.04




                                                                                                                          proportion incremental stolen
                                                                                                                                                          0.04
                                                                 ●                                                                                                      ●

                                       0.03

                                                ●                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                          0.03


                                       0.02
                                                                                                                                                          0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                             ●                                                                                                      ●
                                                     ●

                                       0.01
                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                          0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                               ● ●
                                                                                            ●
                                                         ●
                                                                 ●
                                                ●                           ●                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                  ●●
                                               ●● ●●
                                                  ●                             ●                                                                                      ●
                                                   ●                                                                  ●                                            ●                     ●      ●
                                               ●● ●                                             ●                                                                  ●

                                       0.00                                                                                                               0.00
                                               ●
                                               ●●● ● ●                                                                                                             ●●● ●                            ●
                                               ●
                                               ●●
                                                ●
                                                ●●●                  ●                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                       ●            ●    ●●             ●       ●● ●
                                               ●
                                               ●
                                               ●  ●●●●●
                                                 ●●   ●      ●   ●   ●●             ●   ●   ●                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                     ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                        ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                         ●●     ●    ●                                                ●



                                              0.00           0.05    0.10       0.15    0.20            0.25   0.30                                               0.00          0.05     0.10       0.15    0.20        0.25   0.30

                                              MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference                                                                             MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference

                                                    (c) extreme manufactured                                                                                                        (d) extreme stolen
                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                          0.010                                         ●




 proportion extreme manufactured
                                       0.03




                                                                                                                          proportion extreme stolen
                                                                                                                                                          0.008

                                                                                                                                                                                          ●


                                               ●                                                                                                          0.006
                                       0.02                                                                                                                         ●




                                                                                                                                                          0.004
                                                                 ●
                                                     ●



                                       0.01                                                                                                                                                                 ●

                                                                                                                                                          0.002
                                                                                                                                                                        ●


                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                     ●
                                                                                                ●                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                      ●                                              ●

                                       0.00                                                                                                               0.000
                                               ●   ●                                                                                                                ●● ● ●●              ●                       ●
                                               ●
                                               ●
                                               ●●
                                                ●  ●●●●●
                                                 ●●●
                                                  ●●
                                                   ●   ●● ●●     ●   ●●
                                                                     ●      ● ●●        ●   ●●                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                   ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                      ●●●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                           ●● ●●    ●    ●      ●●              ● ● ●                 ●



                                              0.00           0.05    0.10       0.15    0.20            0.25   0.30                                               0.00          0.05     0.10       0.15    0.20        0.25   0.30

                                              MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference                                                                             MCMC posterior−mean absolute difference


Note: components of eforensics-fraudulent votes as a proportion of the number of voters
(y-axis) by maximum absolute difference in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific
posterior means (x-axis). n = 75 (observation count by state: CA 45; AK 2; FL 12; GA 10;
VA 3; WA 3).
   Table 12: MCMC Multimodality and eforensics-frauds Among Ballot Propositions
                              Estimatesa
                     incremental         extreme
    covariate     manuf. stolen manuf. stolen
 (Intercept)       −6.32 −6.28 −8.47 −8.76
                  (.0489) (.0581) (.0705) (.0514)
 M (π2 )b             8.21    2.84     17.2      9.25
                   (.295) (.382) (.428) (.314)
       c
 D(π2 )               .749    .666     .512      .978
                  (.0951) (.102) (.136) (.118)
 D(π2 ) × M (π2 )     63.4    46.5     54.4 −121.
                   (2.27) (3.33) (7.92) (8.21)
 AIC                           66226294
Note: outcomes are estimated numbers of eforensics-fraudulent votes by type for each
ballot proposition (summing all precincts). n = 75 constitutional amendments, initiatives,
propositions and referenda (observation count by state: CA 45; AK 2; FL 12; GA 10; VA 3;
WA 3). a MNL regression model coefficient estimates (robust standard error) by
eforensics-fraud type: reference category is “no frauds.” b Maximum absolute difference
in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. c All-chains dip test
p-value for π2 .
           Figure 12: eforensics-plots: Germany 2021 Bundestag Erststimmen




 (a) original data




 (b) Wahlkreis- and
 Wahlbezirk -type-
 residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table 13.
Table 13: Germany 2021 Election Erststimmen eforensics Estimates, Wahlkreis Fixed
Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean          loa        upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud      .994        .991        .999
                              π2     Incremental Fraud       .00589      .000892     .00934
                              π3         Extreme Fraud 1.05e-05        9.71e-10    3.26e-05
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) −.586      −1.28            .297
                              β1              Briefwahl −.808       −1.15          −.393
                              β2                 special     .604     −.660         2.45
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.728        −.769        −.692
                              γ1              Briefwahl      .0750       .0662       .0817
                              γ2                 special −.000809 −.101              .0786
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.0726       −.123          .00427
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.0444       −.0795         .00554
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept)     .00630      .00154      .0124
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.00739      −.0191       −.00162
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .00787; M (π2 ) = .00787; M (π3 ) = 1.22e-06.c
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (194 incremental, 0 extreme, 94054 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 10130.7 [6289.0, 13786.5]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 15031.5 [7449.6, 19100.4]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). Wahlkreis fixed effects for turnout and vote choice are
not shown. n = 94248Ppolling station and Briefwahlbezirke     units.
                                                                   PElectors, valid votes and
votes for the leader: ni=1 Ni = 61180662; ni=1 Vi = 24389256; ni=1 Wi = 15463135. a
                                            P
95% HPD lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null
hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between
largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible
interval].
           Figure 13: eforensics-plots: Germany 2005 Bundestag Erststimmen




 (a) original data




 (b) Wahlkreis- and
 Wahlbezirk -type-
 residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table 14
Table 14: Germany 2005 Election Erststimmen eforensics Estimates, Wahlkreis Fixed
Effects
         Type             Parameter       Covariate           Mean          loa         upb
 mixture probabilities        π1          No Fraud           .937        .923         .946
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .0632             .0541        .0772
                              π3       Extreme Fraud         7.11e-05   9.31e-06      .000142
 turnout                      β0         (Intercept)         .435      −.0343        1.20
                              β1          Briefwahl      −1.19        −1.98         −.683
                              β2            special          .553     −1.47          2.08
 vote choice                  γ0         (Intercept)      −.203        −.227        −.162
                              γ1          Briefwahl          .0724       .0566        .0867
                              γ2            special       −.0281       −.106          .0278
 incremental frauds          ρM 0        (Intercept)      −.168        −.202        −.139
                              ρS0        (Intercept)      −.210        −.251        −.187
 extreme frauds              δM 0        (Intercept)      −.00981      −.0250         .00226
                              δS0        (Intercept)      −.00987      −.0309         .0184
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 Erst.: all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .987.c
 posterior means difference          M (π1 ) = .0180; M (π2 ) = .0179; M (π3 ) = .0000537.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (3750 incremental, 1 extreme, 84929 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 217334.1 [163411.2, 254916.2]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 217287.5 [163392.1, 254831.2]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 46.63353 [0.00000, 93.06911]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 360137.2 [344639.3, 378234.7]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 360069.4 [344545.9, 378234.7]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 67.84988 [0.00000, 104.83590]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). n = 88680 polling station and Briefwahlbezirk units.
Wahlkreis fixed effects
                     Pfor turnout and votePchoice are not shown.  P Electors, valid votes and
votes for the leader: ni=1 Ni = 61864986; ni=1 Vi = 38332241; ni=1 Wi = 22062755. a
95% HPD lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null
hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between
largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible
interval].
Table 15: Canada 2011 Legislative Election eforensics Estimates, District Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate        Mean           loa       upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud     .983        .978      .987
                              π2     Incremental Fraud      .0160       .0121     .0209
                              π3         Extreme Fraud      .00126      .000809 .00179
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)    .0775       .0312     .112
                              β1      Adjusted Electors 4.86           4.27      5.50
                              β2                 Mobile     .179        .0740     .264
                              β3          SVR Group 1 −.0125          −.0689      .0798
                              β4          SVR Group 2       .322        .184      .443
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept)    .00233 −.0112         .0165
                              γ1      Adjusted Electors −.0381        −.0722    −.00996
                              γ2                 Mobile −.231         −.264     −.196
                              γ3          SVR Group 1 −.335           −.405     −.263
                              γ4          SVR Group 2 −.114           −.178     −.0495
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept)    .0803       .00754    .136
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.484        −.573     −.324
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept)    .0934       .0259     .228
                             δS0             (Intercept) −1.36       −1.77     −1.05
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .0005; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .983.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .00584; M (π2 ) = .00558; M (π3 ) = .000507.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (534 incremental, 83 extreme, 69686 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 18319.4 [15708.0, 20901.6]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 17786.7 [15105.520384.7]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 532.7 [419.6653.8]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 33238.6 [28899.6, 36959.1]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 26220.2 [23021.2, 30100.7]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 7018.4 [5864.6, 8278.1]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). District fixed effects for turnout and vote choice are
not shown. n = 70303P   poll units. Electors, P
                                              valid votes and votes for the leader:
P  n                     n                      n                    a
   i=1 Ni = 26120334;    i=1 Vi = 14480796;     i=1 Wi = 7307339.      95% HPD lower bound.
b                           c
  95% HPD upper bound. dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
Table 16: Canada 2004–2015 Legislative Election Poll eforensics-fraud Type Frequencies
                               eforensics-frauds type
      kind of poll        no frauds incremental extreme      n
 Regular Residential           .993         .006      .001 332512
 Mobile                        .953         .043      .004   7407
 Special Voting Rules 1        .969         .029      .002   1561
 Special Voting Rules 2        .952         .037      .012   1561

Note: Proportion of each kind of poll that is classified as having each type of
eforensics-fraud, summing over estimates for 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2015.
eforensics-frauds estimates come from the models reported in Tables 15, ??, ??, ?? and
??. The n column reports the number of polls of each kind.
                     Figure 14: eforensics-plots: Mexico 2006 Deputies




 (a) original data




 (b) district-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table 17.
  Table 17: Mexico 2006 Deputies Election eforensics Estimates, District Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean      loa         upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .964         .962        .965
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .0363         .0350       .0375
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .000153 8.01e-05          .000237
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) .258        .233        .275
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.273      −.283      −.257
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.125      −.150      −.106
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.912     −1.02       −.806
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) .0210      −.0128       .0415
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.00761 −.0315          .0428
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 1; D(π2 ) = 1; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .000829; M (π2 ) = .000870; M (π3 ) = .0000512d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (2633 incremental, 19 extreme, 127796 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 129840.2 [120517.5, 136804.5]a
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 127756.4 [118283.2, 134660.3]a
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 2083.8 [1887.6, 2246.4]a
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 186060.1 [173918.6, 195023.2]a
    incremental total                  Fw = 182738.7 [170328.8, 191852.0]a
    extreme total                      Fw = 3321.4 [3029.4, 3617.2]a

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). District fixed effects for turnout and vote choice are
not shown. n =P  130448 casillas (Mayoria
                                       P Relativa votes). P    Electors, valid votes and votes
for the leader: ni=1 Ni = 64220905; ni=1 Vi = 25800523; ni=1 Wi = 11914080. a 95%
HPD lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis
(Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and
smallest chain-specific posterior means.
                       Figure 15: eforensics-plots: Bangladesh 2001




 (a) original data




 (b) district-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Table 18.
    Table 18: Bangladesh 2001 Elections eforensics Estimates, District Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate       Mean        loa     upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .756         .747    .764
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .235          .227    .243
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .00940 .00823 .0106
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) 1.12       1.09    1.13
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.117 −.144 −.0967
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.330 −.365 −.286
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.651 −.712 −.568
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.617 −.742 −.513
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.203 −.242 −.165
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .999; D(π2 ) = 1; D(π3 ) = .988.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .00982; M (π2 ) = .00974; M (π3 ) = .000643.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (3558 incremental, 307 extreme, 25634 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 550673.8 [529468.6, 578704.0]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 451158.9 [429183.3, 477440.5]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 99514.9 [94674.3, 103825.4]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 1387497.6 [1348242.3, 1428884.8]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 1113899.5 [1083778.7, 1152018.5]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 273598.0 [262312.4, 2852334.0]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). District fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not shown (see Figure  Pn 16). n = 29499 polling station
units.
Pn      Electors, valid votes
                        Pn    and votes for the leader:    i=1 Ni = 73697102;
                                              a
   i=1 Vi = 55230753;     i=1 Wi = 28967523.    95% HPD lower bound. b 95% HPD upper
          c
bound. dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all
MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means.
e
  posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
            Figure 16: Bangladesh 2001: eforensics-frauds Magnitude Fixed Effect Parameters
             (a) incremental manufactured: ρM j                                                                                             (b) incremental stolen: ρSj
                                                                                                                                   −0.55
             −0.25




                                                                                                                                   −0.60
             −0.30
                                    ●                   ●




parameter                                                                                                              parameter
                                         ●
                                         ●       ●
                          ●             ●      ●                        ●                  ●                                                                ●                      ●    ●
                                   ●●  ● ●            ●●●     ●                                    ●                                           ●
                                   ●   ● ●●                            ● ●                                   ●●                                         ●                                                                     ●
                                     ●     ●       ● ●●     ● ●●
                                                          ●●●                                 ●●                                                                                                            ●
                                             ●   ●   ●                        ● ●●  ●●
                                                                                     ● ●● ● ●                                                                                         ●                              ●
                       ●●●
                          ●      ●
                                  ●●
                                           ●
                                               ● ●
                                                            ● ● ●●          ●    ●●
                                                                                                         ●     ●
                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                   ●        ● ●●                ●    ● ●      ●         ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●     ● ●● ● ●
                       ●           ●● ●      ●●●       ●     ●        ● ●● ● ●          ●●
                                                                                         ●     ●●          ● ●                                        ●      ● ●●●            ●     ● ●        ●    ●
                        ● ●● ● ●              ●                                 ●  ●●                         ●                               ●                               ●                ●                         ● ●
                          ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
                                                    ● ● ●●●● ●       ● ● ●● ● ●        ●●●● ● ●●●●
                                                                                      ●●            ● ●● ●                                            ●●          ●            ● ● ● ●                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●                  ●●
                      ● ● ●● ●       ●        ● ●  ●
                                                   ●                                               ● ●●                                                             ●●●                  ●●● ●●● ●          ● ●●● ●●           ●● ●

                                                                                                                                   −0.65
                                      ●●                                         ●                                                          ● ● ●●
                                                    ●●●                                        ●        ● ●                                                      ●●    ● ● ●
                           ●●     ●●● ●● ●  ● ●● ●           ● ●●       ●  ●
                                                                    ●●● ● ●●
                                                                             ●●      ● ●  ●
                                                                                          ●  ●
                                                                                             ●  ●         ●
                                                                                                          ● ●                                           ●       ●   ● ●● ●● ● ●● ●          ●● ● ● ● ● ●●          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●          ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●● ● ●●
                            ●        ●● ● ●       ●●
                                                                   ●
                                                                ● ●●●                             ● ●●● ●   ●●                             ● ●●  ●
                                                                                                                                                 ●●● ● ●● ●          ●       ● ●● ● ●           ●●● ● ● ● ● ●        ●    ● ● ●●
                      ● ●     ●● ● ●●
                           ●● ●                         ●
                                                           ● ●
                                                              ●● ●        ●●●
                                                                             ●    ● ● ●       ●●●●●
                                                                                            ● ●●  ● ●●        ●                                ● ● ● ●     ●
                                                                                                                                                           ●      ●● ● ●                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ● ● ●● ● ● ● ● ●● ●●●             ●       ●●

             −0.35
                                                                                                                                                           ●  ●                                                         ● ●
                                                                        ●●      ●● ●                 ●●         ●                             ●
                                                                                                                                             ● ●●       ●               ●
                                                                                                                                                                      ●●●● ● ● ●  ●● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ● ●● ● ● ● ●●     ●● ● ● ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●   ●   ● ●
                         ● ● ●        ●
                                         ● ●                          ●
                                                                               ●            ●            ●                                     ●          ● ● ●●●●●     ●  ●
                                                                                                                                                                           ●   ●● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●  ●       ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                               ● ● ●                       ● ● ●● ●            ●                               ●         ● ●●      ● ●● ● ●                                     ●●     ●
                         ●                           ●                                                       ●                                    ●●●● ●                  ●● ●   ●        ● ●        ●●                          ●
                                                          ●
                                                                       ●                              ●                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                          ●                           ●        ●       ●    ● ●● ●
                                                                                    ●                                                       ●       ●       ● ●●                                  ● ●
                                                ●                                                                                                ●●●
                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                             ● ●                          ●             ●● ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                              ●

                                                                                                                                   −0.70
             −0.40



                      0       15 30 45 60 75 90      110 130 150 170 190 210 230 250 270 290                                               0       15 30 45 60 75 90      110 130 150 170 190 210 230 250 270 290


                                                         distrist                                                                                                            distrist
                     (c) extreme manufactured: δM j                                                                                                    (d) extreme stolen: δSj

                                                                                                                                   −0.05
             −0.50


             −0.55
                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                         ●
                                             ●

                                                                                                                                   −0.15




parameter                                                                                                              parameter
                               ●                 ●   ●                                   ●       ●                                                                                  ●●
                                                         ●
                                                                                               ●                                           ●● ●                 ●        ●
                       ●                                                                                                                                       ●

             −0.60
                                                                                                               ●                               ●                                                       ●●
                        ●     ●    ●           ●●                                    ●          ●●                                                             ● ● ●                                                ●
                            ●●          ●      ●                                         ●      ●                                          ●  ●●       ● ● ● ● ●●       ●                            ● ●●         ●
                          ●     ●●● ●        ●         ●          ●                  ●                     ●                                ●● ●                       ●                 ●           ●
                          ●                ●●●  ●● ●                                     ● ●         ●                                                 ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                      ●●● ●
                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                              ●                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●             ●      ● ●● ●              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                       ●    ● ● ●●      ● ●●                                                          ●●                                          ●●● ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                           ●                   ● ● ●● ● ●      ●
                       ●●● ●●    ●                  ●             ● ●        ●   ●        ●● ●                                             ● ●            ●   ●       ● ●● ●                        ●    ● ● ●●  ●
                             ●●
                             ●                 ●●     ●●                                  ●          ●     ●                                ● ●●
                                                                                                                                               ● ●                     ●            ●●                ● ●●●                      ●●
                                  ● ●
                                     ●
                                       ●          ●                          ●   ●●●        ●   ●                                          ●●● ● ●      ●     ● ●●●  ●                                                            ●
                                         ● ●      ●               ●                      ● ● ●●                                                                                              ●             ●    ●    ●

             −0.65
                         ●                                                                            ●            ●                           ●           ●    ●●
                           ● ●    ●● ●●                                 ●●           ●                                                          ● ● ●●                                                        ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                           ● ●                                           ●● ●                                                                    ● ●●                                              ●

                                                                                                                                   −0.25
                        ●                                                                                  ●                                                                                              ●
                      ●● ●●        ●           ●
                                                   ●              ●
                                                                  ●                                                ●                         ● ●                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                  ● ●                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●       ●
                                                     ●                                                                                               ●                                                         ●
                         ●                  ●                      ●
                      ●                           ●                                      ●
                          ●                                                              ●
                                                                                 ●                    ●


             −0.70


                                                                                                                                   −0.35
             −0.75


                      0       15 30 45 60 75 90      110 130 150 170 190 210 230 250 270 290                                               0       15 30 45 60 75 90      110 130 150 170 190 210 230 250 270 290


                                                         distrist                                                                                                            distrist

Note: active fixed effects parameters (posterior means and 95% HPD intervals) for frauds
magnitude (ρM j , ρSj , δM j , δSj ) parameters in the eforensics model reported in Table 18..
Districts with eforensics-frauds are (except for position 0, district numbers correspond to
position numbers): (incremental) 0 1, 2–29, 31–114, 117–136, 138–150, 152–156, 158–167,
169–188, 191–260, 263–273, 275–279, 280–300; (extreme) 1, 5, 7, 9, 11, 18, 37, 42–44, 48, 50,
61, 62, 69, 80, 83, 86, 89, 91–95, 97, 99, 103, 105–108, 110, 113, 114, 117–119, 121, 127, 128,
141–146, 154, 163, 169, 179, 182, 193, 196, 197, 199, 200, 201, 203, 209, 213–220, 222–225,
229, 230, 232, 241–244, 246–249, 253, 258, 259, 261, 266–268, 281, 282, 284, 291, 297, 298.
Table 19: Bangladesh 2001: Districts where eforensics-fraudulent Votes Exceed the Margin
between First and Second
                        votes  first   second        eforensics-
 district   electors     cast place     place margin    frauds
   114       141226     98890 45932     45903     29       1092.7
   121       150629    116161 52415     50122  2293        4050.0
   129       194911    150723 55702     55435    267       1351.1
   169       195329    146272 54692     54073    619       4261.6
   200       204236    169236 78721     77620  1101        1892.9
   203       151901    125966 58947     58388    559       3992.9
   210       154163    119361 55115     54570    545       2720.2
   228       269109    183213 59656     58985    671       1235.9
   253       133338     97420 37089     36724    365        792.3

Note: eforensics-frauds are sums of each district’s polling station posterior mean
estimates Fwi from the eforensics model reported in Table 18.
                                                                                       Figure 17: MCMC Multimodality Measures and Tests
                                         (a) Bangladesh 1991, 1996, 2001a                                                                                                         (b) Canada 2004, 06, 08, 11, 2015b

                                   1.0    ●
                                          ●●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                           ●●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                           ●●
                                            ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●●
                                              ●
                                              ●
                                              ●
                                              ●●
                                               ●
                                               ●
                                               ●
                                               ●
                                             ●●●
                                                ●
                                                ●
                                                ●
                                                ●●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●●
                                                   ●
                                                   ●
                                                   ●
                                                   ●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●●
                                                     ●
                                                     ●
                                                     ●
                                                     ●
                                                     ●
                                                      ●
                                                      ●
                                                      ●●
                                                       ●
                                                       ●
                                                       ●●
                                                        ●
                                                        ●
                                                        ●
                                                        ●●
                                                         ●
                                                         ●
                                                         ●
                                                         ●●
                                                          ●
                                                          ●●
                                                           ●
                                                           ●
                                                           ●
                                                           ●●
                                                            ●
                                                            ●
                                                            ●
                                                            ●
                                                            ●●
                                                             ●
                                                             ●
                                                             ●
                                                             ●
                                                              ●
                                                              ●
                                                              ●●
                                                               ●
                                                               ●
                                                               ●●
                                                                ●
                                                                ●
                                                                ●●
                                                                 ●
                                                              ●●●●
                                                                  ●
                                                                  ●
                                                                  ●●
                                                                   ●
                                                                   ●●
                                                                    ●
                                                                    ●●
                                                                     ●●
                                                                      ●
                                                                      ●
                                                                      ●●●
                                                                  ●● ● ●
                                                                        ●●
                                                                         ●●
                                                                          ●
                                                                          ●
                                                                          ●●●●
                                                                             ●
                                                                             ●●●●
                                                                                ●●   ●
                                                                                 ● ●●●
                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                      ●                                                                                     1.0    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●  ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ● ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●   ●●●
                                                  ●● ●●●●●
                                                      ●
                                                      ●
                                                      ●●●● ●●  ● ●● ●                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●● ● ●●                      ●
                                            ●● ●●●  ●●      ●●●
                                                              ● ●●●● ●
                                                                             ●     ●                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●                ●
                                             ●●● ●    ●●                 ●       ● ●                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●●● ●       ●




 posterior multimodality p−value                                                                                                          posterior multimodality p−value
                                                          ● ●●●     ●
                                                                      ●●
                                                                       ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●   ●●   ●
                                            ●● ● ●● ●
                                                    ●● ●     ● ● ●●                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●  ●●      ●
                                                      ●●
                                                       ●                                                                                                                           ●●       ● ●●        ●●
                                          ●●       ●           ●                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●● ● ●
                                                         ●          ●● ● ●                                                                                                           ●●   ●●●  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                           ●●●●                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●                                   ●
                                   0.8        ●
                                                ●● ●
                                              ● ●
                                                       ●
                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                            0.8    ● ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●● ●●●●                    ● ●
                                                                                                              ●                                                                         ● ●● ●
                                                            ●                                             ●                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●      ●      ●
                                                                               ●                                                                                                    ● ●●                              ● ●
                                                ●          ● ●                                                                                                                          ●● ● ● ● ●               ●
                                                                                       ●                                                                                                 ●        ● ● ●
                                                                       ●                                                                                                                              ●
                                   0.6                                     ●       ●                                                                                        0.6         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                 ●                                 ●                 ●                                                                                       ● ●
                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●           ● ●
                                                                       ●                ●                                                                                                  ● ●              ●
                                                                                   ●
                                                          ●●                                    ●
                                   0.4                             ●
                                                                                    ●                                                                                       0.4             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●                                 ●
                                                                                   ●                                                                                                    ●    ●●                        ●●
                                                                                   ●                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●             ●                           ●
                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●         ● ●
                                                                                       ●                                                                                                                           ●
                                                               ●                                     ●                                                                                      ●● ●●
                                                 ●                             ●                                                                                                              ●●
                                   0.2                                                                                                                                      0.2
                                                               ●                                     ●                                                                                      ●     ●            ●
                                                                       ●●                                     ●                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                        ●
                                                                                            ●    ●                                                                                              ●
                                                                       ●                                                                                                                                ●          ●
                                                                                       ●●                                                                                                      ●●        ● ●                         ●
                                                  ●                                   ●               ●                                                                                        ●● ● ●
                                                             ● ● ● ●●                                                                                                                              ●                 ●           ●●
                                                       ●                                                                                                                                        ●● ●
                                                   ●     ●     ●● ●●                    ●●●
                                                                                                  ●                                                                                         ● ●  ●●●●   ●      ●
                                   0.0                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                ●                                                                                                                ●          ●●●             ●●
                                                 ●●● ●● ●●
                                                    ●●     ●●
                                                          ●●● ●●
                                                             ●●●    ●
                                                                    ●
                                                                 ● ●●
                                                                ●●     ●
                                                                       ●
                                                                     ●●●●
                                                                        ●●
                                                                         ●●
                                                                          ●
                                                                          ●●
                                                                           ●●
                                                                            ●
                                                                            ●●●
                                                                              ●
                                                                              ●●●●●
                                                                                  ●●
                                                                                   ●●●
                                                                                     ●●●●
                                                                                        ●
                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                           ●●●●
                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                ●●●
                                                                                                  ●● ●●
                                                                                                  ●   ●
                                                                                                      ●● ●
                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                          ●●●●●●
                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                               ●●●
                                                                                                                ●  ●
                                                                                                                   ● ● ●● ●
                                                                                                                  ●●      ●●● ●                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●   ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●●●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●  ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●



                                         0.0                           0.1                          0.2           0.3         0.4                                                  0.0                       0.1                0.2            0.3              0.4                0.5

                                                                   posterior means difference                                                                                                                posterior means difference

                                     (c) Germany 2002, 2005, 2009, 2021c                                                                                                                (d) Mexico 2006, 2009, 2012d

                                   1.0    ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                             ●
                                              ●
                                              ●●
                                              ●
                                              ●●●
                                                ●
                                                ●
                                                ●
                                                ●
                                               ●●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●
                                                  ●●
                                                   ●●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●●●
                                                     ●
                                                     ● ●●
                                                    ● ●●
                                                    ●
                                                     ●  ●●
                                                         ●●
                                                         ●●●
                                                           ●
                                                           ●●●
                                                             ●
                                                             ●  ●●●●●
                                                               ●●
                                                              ●●                        ●                                                                                   1.0    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●●●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●●
                                           ●
                                           ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                            ●
                                             ●
                                             ●●
                                              ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ●
                                                 ● ●●●●●● ● ●●
                                                          ●                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●      ● ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●●
                                           ●
                                           ●●● ●●
                                            ●
                                            ●         ● ●                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ● ●             ●
                                            ●●                                                                                                                                     ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●   ●●●●




 posterior multimodality p−value                                                                                                          posterior multimodality p−value
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●  ●●●
                                          ●● ●   ●● ●   ●  ●                                                                                                                       ● ● ●
                                              ●●                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                          ●
                                          ●
                                          ●●
                                          ●    ● ●●
                                                  ● ●● ●  ●                                                                                                                        ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ●
                                          ●
                                          ●● ●●●●           ●                                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                          ●●
                                          ●  ●    ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ● ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●          ●●
                                             ●
                                             ●         ●                                                                                                                           ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                   0.8                                                                                                                                      0.8
                                          ●●
                                           ●●                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                          ●●        ● ●                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                      ●                                                                                                                            ●●●
                                          ●●       ●●                                                                                                                                ●● ●●                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                     ●                                                                                                                              ●
                                          ● ●                  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                 ●                                                                                                                                              ●
                                   0.6      ●
                                             ●                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                            0.6     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●
                                            ●● ●
                                                ●
                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                      ● ●
                                                ●     ●                                                                                                                                ●

                                   0.4                                                                                                                                      0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                       ●             ●
                                               ●●● ●                                                                                                                                ●
                                                ●                                                                                                                                         ●          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●
                                                ●
                                                 ●                                                                                                                                                       ●

                                   0.2                ●                                                                                                                     0.2             ●
                                                      ●
                                                      ●
                                                     ●●
                                                ●                 ●                                                                                                                   ● ● ●●
                                                             ●                                                                                                                              ●
                                              ● ●                                                                                                                                       ●       ●
                                            ●●●●●●           ●
                                                             ●                                                                                                                            ●●         ●                   ●
                                            ●                         ●
                                              ●●              ●                                                                                                                         ●              ●●
                                   0.0                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                            ●       ●
                                            ●●●●
                                               ●●
                                                ●●●
                                                 ●●●
                                                   ●●
                                                    ●
                                                    ●●
                                                     ●
                                                     ●●
                                                      ● ●●
                                                       ●●●●
                                                          ●
                                                          ● ●●●●
                                                           ●●  ● ●●●●● ●
                                                               ●●●       ●
                                                                         ●●
                                                                        ●● ●●
                                                                            ●●●   ●●
                                                                              ● ●●●●●●●
                                                                                      ●
                                                                                      ●●●●● ●
                                                                                            ● ● ●● ● ●●  ●● ● ●●● ●
                                                                                                      ●● ●        ●●●●
                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                     ●●●
                                                                                                                       ●●●
                                                                                                                        ● ●                                                          ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●
                                                                                                                                                                                            ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                             ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                               ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                ●●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●●●  ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ● ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●●●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●●●●● ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ●              ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ●     ●   ●● ●    ● ●●●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ●●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ●



                                         0.0                       0.1                          0.2           0.3       0.4         0.5                                            0.0                       0.1                0.2         0.3                0.4               0.5

                                                                   posterior means difference                                                                                                                posterior means difference


Note: maximum absolute difference in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific
posterior means (M (π2 ), x-axis) by p-value for posterior multimodality tests for π2 (D(π2 ),
y-axis), using nonpooled (district-specific) eforensics estimates. Lines show OLS
regressions of p-values on mean differences.
a
  Bangladesh 1991 (n = 164), 1996 (n = 295), 2001 (n = 299). b Canada 2004 (n = 308),
2006 (n = 308), 2008 (n = 304), 2011 (n = 303), 2015 (n = 261). c Germany Erststimmen
2002, 2005, 2009, 2021 (each year n = 299). d Mexico Deputies Mayorı́a Relativa 2006,
2009, 2012 (each year n = 300).
Table 20: MCMC Multimodality and eforensics-frauds Occurrences in Several Districted
Legislative Elections
                            (a)            (b)
       variable         coef.   SE     coef.   SE
 (Intercept)            −3.91 .171     −4.01 .171
 M (π2 )a                 3.38 .406     2.29 .396
 D(π2 )b                −.477 .130     −1.43 .124
 M (π2 ) × D(π2 )           —           20.9 1.33
 fixed effects:
    Bangladesh 1996     .610 .151       .255 .172
    Bangladesh 2001     .669 .151       .207 .181
    Canada 2004         .438 .198       .750 .212
    Canada 2006         .448 .201       .852 .209
    Canada 2008         .264 .194       .693 .209
    Canada 2011         .274 .179       .750 .191
    Canada 2015         .311 .219       .806 .233
    Germany 2002        .878 .159       1.27 .166
    Germany 2005        .557 .170       .952 .176
    Germany 2009      −.0599 .189       .475 .187
    Germany 2021       −1.68 .348      −.846 .349
    Mexico 2006         .347 .174       .892 .189
    Mexico 2009        −.290 .172       .315 .190
    Mexico 2012        −.181 .184       .409 .201
         AIC             94195            83820
Note: outcomes are counts of polling stations in each district that are classified as either
having or lacking eforensics-frauds using nonpooled (district-specific) eforensics
estimates: reference category is “no frauds;” incremental and extreme frauds counts are
combined. Binomial regression model coefficient estimates with robust standard errors.
n = 4718 legislative districts. For the fixed effects Bangladesh 1991 is the reference
category. a Maximum absolute difference in π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific
posterior means. b All-chains dip test p-value for π2 .
Table 21: MCMC Multimodality and eforensics-fraudulent Votes in Several Districted
Legislative Elections
                           pooled Fwi estimates             nonpooled Fwi estimates
                             (a)             (b)               (c)            (d)
       variable        coef.     SE    coef.     SE      coef.     SE    coef.    SE
 (Intercept)           −4.86 .0741 −4.38 .0716           −5.19 .0895     −4.81 .0867
 M (π2 )a                2.93 .0931      1.13 .0861        3.56 .0861      1.87 .0698
 D(π2 )b              −.0377 .0321 −.988 .0308          −.0297 .0356     −1.06 .0312
 M (π2 ) × D(π2 )          —             10.8 .252           —             13.6 .0906
 fixed effects:
    Bangladesh 1996    −.147 .0807      −.368 .0810       .366 .0902      .0940 .0894
    Bangladesh 2001     1.03 .0704       .772 .0708       .335 .0891     .00257 .0860
    Canada 2004        −2.27 .118       −2.14 .118        .484 .0854       .665 .0875
    Canada 2006        −1.35 .0902      −1.21 .0903       .616 .0867       .826 .0874
    Canada 2008        −2.20 .106       −2.05 .107        .416 .0865       .639 .0863
    Canada 2011        −1.14 .0816      −.918 .0819       .453 .0852       .749 .0870
    Canada 2015        −.320 .0746      −.104 .0749       .209 .0860       .493 .0851
    Germany 2002        .495 .0686       .596 .0690       .145 .0841       .321 .0862
    Germany 2005       .0591 .0696       .186 .0700      −.265 .0851     −.0646 .0911
    Germany 2009       −1.23 .0774      −1.01 .0780      −1.06 .0895      −.732 .119
    Germany 2021       −2.85 .107       −2.51 .108       −2.64 .117       −2.15 .0856
    Mexico 2006        −.331 .0700      −.160 .0706       .131 .0842       .399 .0883
    Mexico 2009        −1.61 .0859      −1.40 .0865      −.265 .0866      .0510 .0866
    Mexico 2012        −.707 .0705      −.511 .0711      −.457 .0851      −.154 .254
         AIC            27765687          27193389        27432142         26665699

Note: outcomes are pairs (Fwi , Vi − Fwi ), rounded to integers: reference category is “no
frauds;” incremental and extreme frauds counts are combined. Binomial regression model
coefficient estimates with robust standard errors. n = 1183332 polling stations. For the
fixed effects Bangladesh 1991 is the reference category. a Maximum absolute difference in
π2 between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. b All-chains dip test p-value
for π2 .
        Table 22: Russia 2011 Duma (PR) Election Moscow eforensics Estimates
          Type            Parameter       Covariate         Mean        loa     upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud      .918     .88      .944
                              π2     Incremental Fraud       .0714 .046        .107
                              π3         Extreme Fraud       .0106 .00568 .0152
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)     .526     .490     .563
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.284 −.336         −.242
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept)     .301     .0919    .447
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.214 −.497         −.0324
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept)     .333     .0178    .581
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.467 −.730         −.0323
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .978.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0525; M (π2 ) = .0495; M (π3 ) = .00444.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (136 incremental, 38 extreme, 3199 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 29167.6 [25807.1, 31052.2]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 24663.2 [21290.9, 26082.7]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 4504.4 [3507.5, 5202.7]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 51643.9 [46446.9, 54817.8]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 43355.8 [38130.1, 45847.2]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 8288.1 [6659.7, 9534.4]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior
        Pdensity  credible intervals).
                             Pn        n = 3373 units.
                                                 Pn Electors, valid votes   and votes for the
          n                                                           a
leader: i=1 Ni = 7181973; i=1 Vi = 4326522; i=1 Wi = 2052751. 95% HPD lower
bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
                Figure 18: eforensics-plots: Russia 2011 Duma, Moscow




 (a) original data




 (b) original data:
 eforensics-fraudulent
 polling stations in red
 triangles; randomly
 observed polling
 stations in blue crosses;
 other polling stations in
 green circles




Note: For eforensics estimates see Table 22.
Figure 19: Scatterplot: Russia 2011 Duma, Moscow, with Randomly Observed and Neighor-
ing Polling Stations
 (a) original data: eforensics-fraudulent polling stations in red triangles and red asterisks;
 randomly observed polling stations in blue ‘x’s; neighboring polling stations in tan crosses
 and red asterisks; other polling stations in green circles




Note: For eforensics estimates see Table 22.
Table 23: Russia 2011 Duma (PR) Election Moscow eforensics Estimates, with Observer
Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate        Mean         loa     upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud     .892      .880     .905
                              π2     Incremental Fraud      .0970 .0858        .109
                              π3         Extreme Fraud      .0110 .00735 .0147
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)    .571      .527     .6160
                              β1             is observed −.239 −.297         −.173
                              β2             is neighbor −.153 −.224         −.106
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.261 −.293         −.227
                              γ1             is observed −.390 −.456         −.335
                              γ2             is neighbor −.105 −.163         −.0630
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept)    .223      .0598    .336
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.514 −.671         −.427
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept)    .189 −.0556        .414
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.694 −1.02         −.274
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .834; D(π2 ) = 1; D(π3 ) = .999.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .00853; M (π2 ) = .00727; M (π3 ) = .00126.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (185 incremental, 38 extreme, 3150 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 38887.9 [36224.0, 44310.2]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 34140.1 [31776.3, 38630.1]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 4747.8 [3797.6, 5772.1]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 65338.9 [62792.7, 68484.6]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 56557.0 [54551.9, 58793.2]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 8782.0 [7121.7, 10377.1]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior
        Pdensity credible intervals). n = 3373 units.
                                                P Electors, valid votes and votes for the
leader: ni=1 Ni = 7181973; ni=1 Vi = 4326522; ni=1 Wi = 2052751. a 95% HPD lower
                            P
bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
             Figure 20: eforensics-plots: Argentina 2015 President Round 1




 (a) original data




 (b) departamento-
 residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables 24 and 25.
      Table 24: Argentina 2015 President Election (Round 1) eforensics Estimates
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean         loa       upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .990           .980        .999
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .00997          .00101      .0198
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .000181         1.65e-05    .000449
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) 1.42         1.41        1.44
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.642        −.661       −.624
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.312        −.631        .0256
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.247        −.630        .0510
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.0660       −.242        .0268
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.00646      −.0713       .0677
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = 0.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0177; M (π2 ) = .0175; M (π3 ) = .000331.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (31 incremental, 10 extreme, 92170 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 781.5 [626.7, 889.9]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 428.5 [259.4, 602.5]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 353.0 [215.5, 492.6]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 2894.2 [2333.2, 3329.7355]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 1568.3 [935.4, 2163.4]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 1325.9 [810.6, 1859.4]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density
               Pcredible   intervals). P
                                       n = 92204 mesa units.
                                                           PElectors, valid votes and votes
                  n                      n                   n
for the leader: i=1 Ni = 31164077; i=1 Vi = 24420841; i=1 Wi = 9002242. a 95% HPD
lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis
(Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and
smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
Table 25: Argentina 2015 President Election (Round 1) eforensics Estimates, Departa-
mento Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate        Mean          loa        upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .995           .994       .997
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .00480          .00336     .00600
                              π3         Extreme Fraud 6.85e-05 1.98e-05          .000124
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) 1.39         1.366      1.42
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.636       −.659      −.606
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.131       −.245      −.0475
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.798       −.906      −.692
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.0594      −.126        .0444
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.0168      −.0500       .0135
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 1; D(π2 ) = .826; D(π3 ) = .998.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0015; M (π2 ) = .0015; M (π3 ) = 6.4e-06.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (150 incremental, 5 extreme, 92056 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 2631.0 [1593.5, 3380.7]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 2384.8 [1362.5, 3121.4]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 246.3 [154.2, 275.1]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 6326.1 [3935.1, 8226.6]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 5671.2 [3343.5, 7508.9]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 654.9 [419.8, 734.6]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). Departamento fixed effects for turnout and vote choice
are not shown. n = 92204
                       Pn mesa units. Electors,
                                            Pn valid votes and avotes for the leader:
P  n
      N
   i=1 i = 31164077;         V
                         i=1 i =  24420841;   i=1 Wi = 9002242.     95% HPD lower bound.
b                           c
  95% HPD upper bound. dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
             Figure 21: eforensics-plots: Argentina 2015 President Round 2




 (a) original data




 (b) departamento-
 residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables 26 and 28.
      Table 26: Argentina 2015 President Election (Round 2) eforensics Estimates
 (a) no fixed effects
          Type         Parameter     Covariate        Mean                loa           upb
 mixture probabilities     π1             No Fraud .9999               .9998          .99999
                           π2    Incremental Fraud 3.22e-05            4.77e-09      9.28e-05
                           π3       Extreme Fraud 6.31e-05             4.21e-06       .000165
 turnout                   β0           (Intercept) 1.37              1.35          1.38
 vote choice               γ0           (Intercept) .0410              .0171          .0662
 incremental frauds       ρM 0          (Intercept) −.111             −.251         −.0103
                          ρS0           (Intercept) −.0565            −.226           .0486
 extreme frauds           δM 0          (Intercept) −.00951           −.0520          .0355
                          δS0           (Intercept) −.0103            −.0581          .0476

 (b) turnout and vote choice Departamento fixed effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate         Mean            loa       upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .977             .902       .9999
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .0230             3.05e-08   .0977
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .000193           1.78e-05   .000355
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) 1.29          1.09       1.35
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.0104       −.0573        .0261
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.516        −.694       −.212
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.845        −.960       −.718
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.0828       −.173       −.0195
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.0694       −.155         .0784
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 (a) no fixed effects:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .385; D(π2 ) = 1; D(π3 ) = .885.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .000121; M (π2 ) = 2.52e-05; M (π3 ) = .0001.d
 (b) turnout and vote choice Departamento fixed effects:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = 0.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0913; M (π2 ) = .0914; M (π3 ) = .000246.d

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). (b) Departamento fixed effects for turnout and vote
choice are
        Pnnot shown. (a, b) nP=n 92632 mesa units.PElectors,   valid votes and votes for the
                                                     n
leader: i=1 Ni = 31569917; i=1 Vi = 24691223; i=1 Wi = 12711629. a 95% HPD lower
bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means.
Table 27: Argentina 2015 President Election (Round 2) eforensics-fraudulent Vote Esti-
mates
 (a) no fixed effects:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (0 incremental, 2 extreme, 92630 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                  Ft = 75.5 [45.7, 110.0]a
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 217.4 [133.6, 313.8]a

 (b) turnout and vote choice Departamento fixed effects:
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (0 incremental, 19 extreme, 92613 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                  Ft = 726.6 [445.3, 982.9]a
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 1486.2 [755.2, 2058.2]a
Note: eforensics
               Pn model fraudulent P
                                   vote count estimates.P
                                                        Electors, valid votes and votes
for the leader: i=1 Ni = 31569917; i=1 Vi = 24691223; ni=1 Wi = 12711629. a posterior
                                     n

mean [99.5% credible interval].
Table 28: Argentina 2015 President Election (Round 2) eforensics Estimates, Departa-
mento Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean          loa       upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud      .538        .500       .673
                              π2     Incremental Fraud       .462        .327       .500
                              π3         Extreme Fraud       .000170 1.40e-05       .000415
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)     .974        .789      1.22
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.192         −.232       −.120
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.161         −.846       1.21
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −2.06        −2.69       −1.33
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.0867        −.173        .00198
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.124         −.240        .0214
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .135.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .152; M (π2 ) = .152; M (π3 ) = .000311.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (48225 incremental, 7 extreme, 44407 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 1088040.9 [438939.5, 1546455.4]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 1087677.9 [438588.4, 1545902.5]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 363.0 [191.8, 550.7]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 1450675.7 [985958.0, 1829807.8]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 1449940.8 [985191.1, 1828730.3]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 734.9 [316.5, 1107.6]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). Departamento fixed effects for turnout, vote choice
and eforensics-frauds magnitudes  Pn are not shown. nP = 92589 mesa units. Electors, valid
                                                         n
votes
Pn     and votes for the  leader:      N
                                   i=1 i = 31569917;     i=1 Vi = 24691223;
                        a
   i=1 Wi = 12711629.      95% HPD lower bound. 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for
                                                 b

unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains.
d
  difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean
[99.5% credible interval].
Figure 22: Argentina 2015 President Round 2: eforensics-frauds Magnitude Fixed Effect
Parameters
            (a) incremental manufactured: ρM j                                                                                (b) incremental stolen: ρSj

            0.2
                                                                                                                      −1.4


            0.0                                                     ●             ●                                   −1.6
                                            ●               ●
                                       ●                                                ●
                                             ●●                ●●                    ●●●        ●




parameter                                                                                                 parameter
                                        ●● ●
                                                                                                                      −1.8
                              ●                        ●                  ●      ●       ●●● ●
                           ●● ●●     ●          ●●      ●
                                                           ● ●             ●
                                                            ● ● ● ●● ●● ● ●● ● ●●
                     ●                      ●● ● ●
            −0.2
                                ●     ●   ●
                         ●●  ●     ●    ●             ●
                                              ●● ● ● ●●
                                                                      ●
                                                                   ● ● ●                       ● ●
                          ● ● ●● ●●                       ● ●     ● ●   ●      ●
                                                                                   ●      ● ●     ●●
                                                                                                                                                      ● ●
                                 ●                 ●                                          ●                                                                                ●                ●
                                                    ●                       ● ●                                                                 ● ●●                                                        ● ●

                                                                                                                      −2.0        ● ●               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                   ●                         ●●● ●
                                                                                                                                    ●             ●        ●    ● ●●●●● ●                           ●
                                                      ●                                                                         ●●            ●  ● ● ● ●●   ●                                                      ●
                                                                                                                             ●●       ●                       ●                          ●   ●     ●
                                                                                                                                                          ●                ●  ●                                       ●●●●● ●
                                                                                                                                   ● ● ●● ● ●
            −0.4
                                                                                                                                          ●                                 ●         ●   ● ● ●           ●
                                                                                                                               ●                             ● ●                 ●     ●●        ●                   ●     ●
                                                                ●                                                                           ● ●                ●       ●●
                                                                                                                                                                         ●        ●●       ●● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●●● ●
                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                      −2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                ●                    ●              ●
                                                                                                                                             ●                                       ●                ●           ●

                                                                                                                                                                               ●


            −0.6                                                                                                      −2.4


            −0.8                                                                                                      −2.6



                     0     5   10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95                                         0   5   10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95


                                            Departamento                                                                                              Departamento
                    (c) extreme manufactured: δM j                                                                                   (d) extreme stolen: δSj
                                                                                                                      0.0



            −0.05
                                                                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                      ●

                                                                                                                      −0.1                                                                                ●                ●
                                                                                                                                                 ●

            −0.10
                                                            ●




parameter                                                                                                 parameter
                                                                                          ●                                                                                                                       ●
                                                                                                  ●

                                        ●                                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                              ●

                                                                                                                      −0.2                                                                                    ●


            −0.15



                                                                                                                      −0.3
            −0.20




            −0.25                                                                                                     −0.4
                     0     5   10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95                                         0   5   10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95


                                            Departamento                                                                                              Departamento

Note: active fixed effects parameters (posterior means and 95% HPD intervals) for frauds
magnitude (ρM j , ρSj , δM j , δSj ) parameters in the eforensics model reported in Table 28.
Departamentos with extreme eforensics-frauds are: 22 San Luis small, 49 Tucumán
small, 82 Catamarca small, 84 Córdoba small, 89 Córdoba Colón, 96 Entre Rı́os small, 99
Formosa small. (“small” comprises all Departamentos each of which has fewer than 350
mesas in a Provincia).
                     Figure 23: eforensics-plots: Florida 2000 President




 (a) original data




 (b) county-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables ?? and ??.
      Table 29: Florida 2000 President eforensics Estimates, County Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean            loa     upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud      .857          .843     .871
                              π2     Incremental Fraud       .143          .129     .157
                              π3         Extreme Fraud       .000211      9.62e-08  .000639
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)     .672          .634     .705
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.203           −.247     −.158
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.402           −.437     −.355
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.425           −.485     −.342
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept)     .00237      −.124      .145
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.0557          −.156      .0380
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .999; D(π2 ) = .991; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0153; M (π2 ) = .0155; M (π3 ) = .000187.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (389 incremental, 0 extreme, 5552 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 39310.5 [36821.6, 43453.4]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 85359.7 [81093.6, 90878.8]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). County fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not shown P    (see Figure 24). n =P 5941 precinct units.
Electors,
Pn        valid votes and votes for the leader: i=1 Ni = 8744117; ni=1 Vi = 5961147;
                                                  n
                      a
   i=1 Wi = 2911796.    95% HPD lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for
unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains.
d
  difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean
[99.5% credible interval].
Figure 24: Florida 2000 President: eforensics-frauds Magnitude Fixed Effect Parameters
            (a) incremental manufactured: ρM j                                                                                                       (b) incremental stolen: ρSj
            −0.2                                                                                                                              −0.2




            −0.3                                                                                                                              −0.3
                                         ●

                                                                                                                                                                            ●                            ●                  ●




parameter                                                                                                                         parameter
                           ●                                                                                                                                                                                               ●                            ●
                                        ●                                                        ●         ●                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                          ●            ●●                     ●    ●●
                                             ●                           ●                                  ●                                                                                            ●                           ●        ●

                                                                                                                                              −0.4
                                                          ●                                       ●                          ●                                                   ●
                                                                                   ●                   ●                                                                                                          ●                            ●            ●
                       ●            ●            ●              ●             ●●                                                                                                              ●
            −0.4
                                                                                                                 ●                                            ●                                ●●            ●                                                      ●
                                                                                                                                                                                     ●               ●                                                          ●
                   ●                                           ●     ●              ● ●                         ●                                    ●                                                                      ●●            ●       ● ●
                               ●                                    ●                  ●●                                                                                                 ●                                                                          ●
                                                          ● ●                ●       ●            ●         ●                                                                                       ●                                ●
                                                                                                                                                                  ●●         ●                                ●        ●
                       ●                                                                           ●                          ●                                                                                                  ●                     ●
                                                      ●                                                         ●        ●                                                                                                                         ●
                                                                         ●                                                                                                                                                                    ●
                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                              −0.5
                                                                ●
                           ●●                                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ●

            −0.5
                                   ●
                                                                                                                     ●                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                                                              ●



                                                                                                                                              −0.6

            −0.6

                                                                                                                                              −0.7

                   0       5       10   15       20       25        30       35    40       45    50       55       60   65                          0        5        10   15       20       25    30       35       40        45       50       55       60   65


                                                               county                                                                                                                              county

Note: active fixed effects parameters (posterior means and 95% HPD intervals) for frauds
magnitude (ρM j , ρSj ) parameters in the eforensics model reported in Table 29. Counties
with eforensics-frauds are: 0 Alachua, 2 Baker, 3 Bay, 5 Brevard, 6 Broward, 7 Calhoun,
8 Charlotte, 10 Clay, 11 Collier, 15 Duval, 16 Escambia, 17 Flagler, 20 Gilchrist, 22 Gulf,
24 Hardee, 25 Hendry, 26 Hernando, 27 Highlands, 28 Hillsborough, 29 Holmes, 30 Indian
River, 31 Jackson, 33 Lafayette, 34 Lake, 35 Lee, 36 Leon, 37 Levy, 40 Manatee, 41 Marion,
42 Martin, 43 Miami-Dade, 44 Monroe, 45 Nassau, 46 Okaloosa, 48 Orange, 49 Osceola, 50
Palm Beach, 51 Pasco, 52 Pinellas, 53 Polk, 54 Putnam, 55 Santa Rosa, 56 Sarasota, 57
Seminole, 58 St. Johns, 59 St. Lucie, 61 Suwannee, 64 Volusia, 66 Walton, 67 Washington.
           Table 30: Wisconsin 2016 President Elections eforensics Estimates
 (a) Intercepts only:
         Type          Parameter     Covariate        Mean              loa      upb
 mixture probabilities     π1             No Fraud .823               .645     .938
                           π2    Incremental Fraud .177               .0616    .355
                           π3       Extreme Fraud .000304            3.86e-08  .000912
 turnout                   β0           (Intercept) 1.34            1.28      1.39
 vote choice               γ0           (Intercept) −.319           −.528     −.179
 incremental frauds       ρM 0          (Intercept) −.705           −.991     −.484
                          ρS0           (Intercept) .0411           −.258      .357
 extreme frauds           δM 0          (Intercept) −.167           −.314     −.0436
                          δS0           (Intercept) −.201           −.469      .0592
 (b) Including county fixed effects:c
          Type            Parameter        Covariate         Mean        loa         upb
 mixture probabilities        π1                No Fraud .807          .724        .929
                              π2       Incremental Fraud .193          .0710       .276
                              π3          Extreme Fraud .000477 5.72e-08 .00145
 turnout                      β0              (Intercept) 1.38       1.345        1.43
 vote choice                  γ0              (Intercept) .0328      −.0171        .0992
 incremental frauds          ρM 0             (Intercept) −.452     −1.20          .355
                             ρS0              (Intercept) −1.02     −1.28        −.864
 extreme frauds              δM 0             (Intercept) −.0125     −.512         .220
                             δS0              (Intercept) −.157      −.495         .173
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 no fixed: all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = 1.d
             posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .275; M (π2 ) = .275; M (π3 ) = .0000525.e
 fixed eff.: all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = 0; D(π2 ) = 0; D(π3 ) = .972.d
             posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .181; M (π2 ) = .181; M (π3 ) = .00068.e
 (a) units eforensics-fraudulent: (240 incremental, 0 extreme, 3154 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 5618.8 [2406.1, 8120.8]a
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 24721.9 [11146.4, 33979.2]a
 (b) units eforensics-fraudulent: (199 incremental, 0 extreme, 3195 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 7788.9 [2887.6, 13025.8]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 16438.6 [11033.6, 21840.1]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density
               Pcredible  intervals).Pn = 3394 ward units.
                                                       PnElectors, valid votes and votes
                  n                    n                                    a
for the leader: i=1 Ni = 3721467; i=1 Vi = 2971244; i=1 Wi = 1402592. 95% HPD
lower bound. b 95% HPD upper bound. c County fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not shown (see Figure 25). d dip test for unimodality
null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. e difference between
largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means.
Figure 25: Wisconsin 2016 President: eforensics-frauds Magnitude Fixed Effect Parame-
ters
            (a) incremental manufactured: ρM j                                                                             (b) incremental stolen: ρSj



            0.0                                                                                                     −0.8




parameter                                                                                               parameter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●                        ●
                                                                                                                                           ●                           ●
                                                                                                                                            ●                ●
                       ●                                                                                                                                 ●
                                       ●                            ●                                                          ● ●●                               ●    ●                  ●●                                              ●
                                                                                                   ●                                                                                                                                  ●
                                ●            ●●      ●                                   ●                                                      ●                                   ●                                            ● ●●
                                                                                                                    −1.0
                                    ●                                           ●     ●                                                                  ●                      ●             ●
                                           ●●
                                      ●       ●●                              ●                   ●
                   ●                 ●             ●● ●● ●                       ● ●●      ● ●                                 ●                                                                              ●

            −0.5
                               ● ●●                      ●● ●
                                                                          ●● ●
                                                                                         ●       ●                         ●                                                  ● ●                 ●                         ●●
                                                       ●
                                                                        ●●             ●    ●   ●                                                    ●           ● ●           ●●                     ●
                       ●                                                ●                                                                                                   ●                             ●            ●
                           ● ●                                                                ●                                        ●        ●                                                                            ●
                                                     ●                         ●                                                                              ●                                                         ●                     ●
                                                                                                                                                    ●                                                          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ●                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                           ●                                                                     ●

                                                                                                                                   ●                                                              ●

                                                                                                                    −1.2

            −1.0




                   0       5     10   15   20   25       30   35   40     45   50   55   60   65   70                      0       5       10       15   20       25       30       35   40       45          50       55    60    65       70


                                                         county                                                                                                            county

Note: active fixed effects parameters (posterior means and 95% HPD intervals) for frauds
magnitude (ρM j , ρSj , δM j , δSj ) parameters in the eforensics model reported in Table 30.
Counties with eforensics-frauds are: 0 Adams, 3 Barron, 4 Bayfield, 5 Brown, 7 Burnett,
8 Calumet, 9 Chippewa, 10 Clark, 11 Columbia, 13 Dane, 14 Dodge, 15 Door, 16 Douglas,
19 Florence, 20 Fond du Lac, 21 Forest, 22 Grant, 23 Green, 24 Green Lake, 26 Iron, 27
Jackson, 28 Jefferson, 30 Kenosha, 31 Kewaunee, 32 La Crosse, 33 Lafayette, 34 Langlade,
35 Lincoln, 36 Manitowoc, 37 Marathon, 41 Milwaukee, 42 Monroe, 43 Oconto, 44 Oneida,
45 Outagamie, 46 Ozaukee, 48 Pierce, 49 Polk, 50 Portage, 51 Price, 52 Racine, 54 Rock,
55 Rusk, 58 Shawano, 59 Sheboygan, 60 St Croix, 61 Taylor, 64 Vilas, 65 Walworth, 67
Washington, 68 Waukesha, 69 Waupaca, 70 Waushara, 71 Winnebago, 72 Wood.
                     Figure 26: eforensics-plots: Ohio 2004 President




 (a) original data




 (b) county-residualized
 data




Note: scatterplots, 2D empirical densities and marginal histograms for turnout and leader
vote proportions. For eforensics estimates see Tables ?? and ??.
   Table 31: Ohio 2004 President Election eforensics Estimates, County Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate         Mean         loa        upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud .774           .762       .788
                              π2     Incremental Fraud .225            .210       .237
                              π3         Extreme Fraud .000702 .000149 .00137
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept) .797          .776       .823
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −.0427      −.0861       .0113
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.429       −.462     −.399
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.403       −.461     −.358
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.322       −.557     −.150
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.232       −.383     −.106
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .981; D(π2 ) = .998; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0153; M (π2 ) = .0160; M (π3 ) = .000623.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (1924 incremental, 5 extreme, 9435 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 79378.2 [73570.1, 83534.4]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 78920.2 [73082.0, 83153.5]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 458.0 [281.5, 550.1]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 177874.2 [166201.6, 186814.6]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 176753.1 [165035.9, 185860.4]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 1121.1 [710.5, 1329.1]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). County fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and
eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not shown P     (see Figure 27). n =P11364 precinct units.
                                                    n                   n
Electors,
Pn        valid votes and  votes for the leader:       N
                                                    i=1 i = 7972292;    i=1 Vi = 5411161;
                      a
   i=1 Wi = 2766860.    95% HPD lower bound. 95% HPD upper bound. c dip test for
                                                  b

unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains.
d
  difference between largest and smallest chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean
[99.5% credible interval].
  Figure 27: Ohio 2004 President: eforensics-frauds Magnitude Fixed Effect Parameters
            (a) incremental manufactured: ρM j                                                                                                                    (b) incremental stolen: ρSj
            −0.1
                                                                                                                                                           −0.1                                            ●
                                                              ●

            −0.2
                                                                                                                                                           −0.2

            −0.3




parameter                                                                                                                                      parameter
                                                                                                                                                           −0.3
                                                                   ●                                                         ●
                                                    ●                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●
                                                                                                                                                                                              ●
                                ● ●                                                                                              ●                                                              ●                                                                                   ●        ●●
                                                                                              ●●                                                                           ● ●●              ●●                      ●                                                                         ●
            −0.4
                                            ● ●                                              ●                                                                                              ●                                ●           ●             ●
                                   ●                                               ●               ●                   ●                                                              ● ●                   ●                        ●                     ●
                            ●          ●                                                                                                                                                                  ●● ●                                                     ●          ●             ●     ●●
                                                              ●        ● ●●         ●                              ●●          ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ●                           ●                             ●
                                                        ●   ●                                                                                                                                         ●                  ●
                                                                                                                                                           −0.4
                    ●●         ●
                                           ●
                                                        ●● ●                  ●                            ●●     ●     ● ●●      ●                                   ●                                                                                        ●
                                                                                         ●                                                                                                                                                       ●●●                         ● ●                       ●
                      ●                        ●               ●                       ●●              ●         ●    ●          ●                                ●                   ●              ●                               ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●● ●                         ●
                              ●        ●●       ●       ● ●            ●
                                                                                  ●
                                                                                      ●                                    ● ● ●                                      ●         ●●                  ●       ●                    ●                     ●
                                                                   ●                           ●●●              ●                  ●                                                       ●                     ●       ●               ●●●                   ●
                                                                                                                    ●                                                                                                                                                                                ●

            −0.5
                                                                                                       ●                                                                               ●                                                           ●       ●           ●                ●           ●
                                                                           ●                                                  ●
                                   ●
                                                                               ●        ● ●●                             ●●                                                                                          ●           ●

                                                                                                                                                           −0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ●                                             ●
                                                                                                                                                                                  ●
                        ●                                                                                                                                                 ● ●
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ●●
            −0.6
                                                                                                                                                           −0.6

            −0.7

                    0     5     10     15       20      25   30   35     40       45    50   55    60       65     70   75   80      85   90                      0       5     10     15      20   25    30    35       40      45       50       55      60          65      70   75       80     85   90


                                                                   county                                                                                                                                        county
                   (c) extreme manufactured: δM j                                                                                                                          (d) extreme stolen: δSj


            −0.2                                                                                                                                           −0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ●




parameter                                                                                                                                      parameter
                                                                                                                        ●



            −0.4                                                                                                                                           −0.4




            −0.6                                                                                                                                           −0.6
                                                              ●

                                                                                                                                                                                                           ●




            −0.8                                                                                                                                           −0.8



                    0     5     10     15       20      25   30   35     40       45    50   55    60       65     70   75   80      85   90                      0       5     10     15      20   25    30    35       40      45       50       55      60          65      70   75       80     85   90


                                                                   county                                                                                                                                        county

Note: active fixed effects parameters (posterior means and 95% HPD intervals) for frauds
magnitude (ρM j , ρSj , δM j , δSj ) parameters in the eforensics model reported in Table XX.
Counties with extreme eforensics-frauds are: 32 Hamilton, 75 Shelby.
Table 32: Ohio 2004 President Election eforensics Estimates, African American Proportion
Effects and County Fixed Effects
          Type            Parameter       Covariate          Mean           loa      upb
 mixture probabilities        π1               No Fraud      .830         .817      .847
                              π2     Incremental Fraud       .169         .153      .182
                              π3         Extreme Fraud       .000693      .000162   .00133
 turnout                      β0             (Intercept)     .496         .476      .514
                              β1      African American −.0631            −.0656    −.0604
 vote choice                  γ0             (Intercept) −1.11        −1.16       −1.08
                              γ1      African American −.220             −.225     −.215
 incremental frauds          ρM 0            (Intercept) −.155           −.308     −.0856
                             ρM 1     African American       .0572        .0408     .0720
                             ρS0             (Intercept) −.424           −.523     −.330
                             ρS1      African American       .0764        .0707     .0840
 extreme frauds              δM 0            (Intercept) −.298           −.494     −.100
                             δM 1     African American       .101         .0311     .249
                             δS0             (Intercept) −.307           −.496     −.124
                             δS1      African American       .0887        .0402     .140
 posterior multimodality diagnostics:
 all-chains dip test p-values D(π1 ) = .038; D(π2 ) = .020; D(π3 ) = 1.c
 posterior means difference M (π1 ) = .0180; M (π2 ) = .0181; M (π3 ) = .000552.d
 units eforensics-fraudulent: (1421 incremental, 6 extreme, 9804 not fraudulent)
 manufactured votes                 Ft = 59753.0 [50806.6, 68715.8]e
    incremental manufactured           Ft = 59395.5 [50311.2, 68163.8]e
    extreme manufactured               Ft = 357.5 [88.7, 561.9]e
 total eforensics-fraudulent votes Fw = 117786.3 [97332.5, 133960.6]e
    incremental total                  Fw = 117038.9 [96296.5, 132793.0]e
    extreme total                      Fw = 747.4 [184.4, 1186.7]e

Note: selected eforensics model parameter estimates (posterior means and highest
posterior density credible intervals). “African American” denotes the logit of the precinct
proportion African American: (min, median, Q3, max)= (−9.2, −4.4, −2.8, 9.2). County
fixed effects for turnout, vote choice and eforensics-frauds magnitudes are not shown.
n
P=   11231 precinct units.
                      Pn Electors, valid P votes and votes for the leader:
   n                                         n                  a
   i=1 Ni = 7900002;    i=1 Vi = 5362107;    i=1 Wi = 2738640.    95% HPD lower bound.
b                            c
  95% HPD upper bound. dip test for unimodality null hypothesis (Hartigan and
Hartigan 1985) over all MCMC chains. d difference between largest and smallest
chain-specific posterior means. e posterior mean [99.5% credible interval].
